The lion and a clever fox
Long ago, there lived a lion in a dense forest. One morning his wife told him that his breath was bad and unpleasant. The lion became embarrassed and angry upon hearing it. He wanted to check this fact with others. So he called three others outside his cave.
First came the sheep. The Lion opening his mouth wide said, “Sheep, tell me if my mouth smells bad?” The sheep thought that the lion wanted an honest answer, so the sheep said, “Yes, Friend. There seems to be something wrong with your breath”. This plain speak did not go well with the lion. He pounced on the sheep, killing it.
Then the lion called the wolf and said, “What do you think? Do I have a bad breath?” The wolf saw what happened to the sheep. He wanted to be very cautious in answering a question. So, the wolf said, “Who says that Your breath is unpleasant. It’s as sweet as the smell of roses”. When the lion heard the reply, he roared in an anger and immediately attacked the wolf and killed it. “The flatterer!” growled the lion.
Finally, came the turn of the fox. The lion asked him the same question. The fox was well aware of the fate of the sheep and the wolf. So he coughed and cleared his throat again and again and then said, “Oh Dear Friend, for the last few days, I have been having a very bad cold. Due to this, I can’t smell anything, pleasant or unpleasant”.
The lion spared the fox’s life.
Moral:  Do not involve yourself in a bad company or a bad situation else you may end up getting punished for no fault of yours.  Sometimes, It’s wise to stay away from certain situations.

The ant and the Dove
On a hot day of summer, an ant was searching for some water. After walking around for some time, she came near the river. To drink the water, she climbed up on a small rock. While trying to drink a water, she slipped and fell into the river.
There was a dove sitting on a branch of a tree who saw an ant falling into the river. The dove quickly plucked a leaf and dropped it into the river near the struggling ant. The ant moved towards the leaf and climbed up onto it. Soon, the leaf drifted to dry ground, and the ant jumped out. She looked up to the tree and thanked the dove.
Later, the same day, a bird catcher nearby was about to throw his net over the dove hoping to trap it. An ant saw him and guessed what he was about to do. The dove was resting and he had no idea about the bird catcher. An ant quickly bit him on the foot. Feeling the pain, the bird catcher dropped his net and let out a light scream. The dove noticed it and quickly flew away.
Moral:  If you do good, good will come to you.  One good turn deserves another.

Farmer’s Well & Witty Birbal
Once a man sold his well to a farmer. Next day when a farmer went to draw the water from that well, the man did not allow him to draw the water from it. He said, “I have sold you the well, not the water, so you cannot draw the water from the well.”
The farmer became very sad and came to the Emperor’s court. He described everything to the Emperor and asked for the justice.
The Emperor called Birbal and handed over this case to him. Birbal called the man who sold the well to the farmer. Birbal asked, “Why don’t you let him use the water of the well. You have sold the well to the farmer.” The man replied, “Birbal, I have sold the well to the farmer, not the water. He has no right to draw the water from the well.”
Then Birbal smiled and said to him, “Good, but look, since you have sold the well to this farmer, and you claim that water is yours, then you have no right to keep your water in the farmer’s well. Either you pay rent to the farmer to keep your water in his well, or you take that out of his well immediately.”
The man understood, that his trick has failed. Birbal has outwitted him.
Moral: Don’t Try to Cheat. You will end up paying for it regardless of how smart you think you are.

The fox and the goat
Once a fox was roaming around in the dark. Unfortunately, he fell into a well. He tried his level best to come out but all in vain. So, he had no other alternative but to remain there until the next morning. The next day, a goat came that way. She peeped into the well and saw the fox there. The goat asked, “what are you doing there, Mr. Fox?”
The sly fox replied, “I came here to drink water. It is the best I have ever tasted. Come and see for yourself.” Without thinking even for a while, the goat jumped into the well, quenched her thirst and looked for a way to get out. But just like the fox, she also found herself helpless to come out.
Then the fox said, “I have an idea. You stand on your hind legs. I’ll climb on your head and get out. Then I shall help you come out too.” The goat was innocent enough to understand the shrewdness of the fox and did as the fox said and helped him get out of the well.
While walking away, the fox said, “Had you been intelligent enough, you would never have got in without seeing how to get out.”
Moral: Look before you leap.  Do not just blindly walk in to anything without thinking.

The Golden Egg
Once upon a time, there lived a cloth merchant in a village with his wife and two children. They were indeed quite well-off. They had a beautiful hen which laid an egg every day. It was not an ordinary egg, rather, a golden egg. But the man was not satisfied with what he used to get daily. He was a get rich-trice kind of a person.
The man wanted to get all the golden eggs from his hen at one single go. So, one day he thought hard and at last clicked upon a plan. He decided to kill the hen and get all the eggs together.
So, the next day when the hen laid a golden egg, the man caught hold of it, took a sharp knife, chopped off its neck and cut its body open.  There was nothing but blood all around & no trace of any egg at all. He was highly grieved because now he would not get even one single egg.
His life was going on smoothly with one egg a day but now, he himself made his life miserable. The outcome of his greed was that he started becoming poorer & poorer day by day and ultimately became a pauper. How jinxed and how much foolish he was.
Moral: One who desires more, loses all. One should remain satisfied with what one gets.

The bear and the two friends
Once two friends were walking through the forest. They knew that anything dangerous can happen to them at any time in the forest. So they promised each other that they would remain united in any case of danger.
Suddenly, they saw a large bear approaching them. One of the friends at once climbed a nearby tree. But the other one did not know how to climb. So being led by his common sense, he lay down on the ground breathless, pretending to be a dead man.
The bear came near the man lying on the ground. It smelt in his ears, and slowly left the place. Because the bears do not touch the dead creatures.Now the friend on the tree came down and asked his friend on the ground, “Friend, what did the bear tell you into your ears?” The other friend replied, “The bear advised me not to believe a false friend.”
Moral: True Friend is the one who always supports and stands by you in any situation.

The three questions
King Akbar was very fond of Birbal. This made a certain courtier very jealous. Now this courtier always wanted to be chief minister, but this was not possible as Birbal filled that position.  One day Akbar praised Birbal in front of the courtier. This made the courtier very angry and he said that the king praised Birbal unjustly and if Birbal could answer three of his questions, he would accept the fact that Birbal was intelligent. Akbar always wanting to test Birbals wit readily agreed.
The three questions were
1. How many stars are there in the sky
2. Where is the centre of the Earth and
3. How many men and how many women are there in the world.
Immediately Akbar asked Birbal the three questions and informed him that if he could not answer them, he would have to resign as chief minister.
To answer the first question, Birbal brought a hairy sheep and said, “There are as many stars in the sky as there is hair on the sheep’s body. My friend the courtier is welcome to count them if he likes.”
To answer the second question, Birbal drew a couple of lines on the floor and bore an iron rod in it and said, “this is the center of the Earth, the courtier may measure it himself if he has any doubts.”
In answer to the third question, Birbal said, “Counting the exact number of men and women in the world would be a problem as there are some specimens like our courtier friend here who cannot easily be classified as either. Therefore if all people like him are killed, then and only then can one count the exact number.”
Moral: There is Always a Way.

The monkey and the crocodile
Once upon a time, a clever monkey lived in a tree that bore juicy, red rose apples. He was very happy. One fine day, a crocodile swam up to that tree and told the monkey that he had traveled a long distance and was in search of food as he was very hungry. The kind monkey offered him a few rose apples. The crocodile enjoyed them very much and asked the monkey whether he could come again for some more fruit. The generous monkey happily agreed.
The crocodile returned the next day. And the next. And the next one after that. Soon the two became very good friends. They discussed their lives, their friends and family, like all friends do. The crocodile told the monkey that he had a wife and that they lived on the other side of the river. So the kind monkey offered him some extra rose apples to take home to his wife. The crocodile’s wife loved the rose apples and made her husband promise to get her some every day.
Meanwhile, the friendship between the monkey and the crocodile deepened as they spent more and more time together. The crocodile’s wife started getting jealous. She wanted to put an end to this friendship. So she pretended that she could not believe that her husband could be friends with a monkey. Her husband tried to convince her that he and the monkey shared a true friendship. The crocodile’s wife thought to herself that if the monkey lived on a diet of rose monkeys, his flesh would be very sweet. So she asked the crocodile to invite the monkey to their house.
The crocodile was not happy about this. He tried to make the excuse that it would be difficult to get the monkey across the river. But his wife was determined to eat the monkey’s flesh. So she thought of a plan. One day, she pretended to be very ill and told the crocodile that the doctor said that she would only recover if she ate a monkey’s heart. If her husband wanted to save her life, he must bring her his friend’s heart.
The crocodile was aghast. He was in a dilemma. On the one hand, he loved his friend. On the other, he could not possibly let his wife die. The crocodile’s wife threatened him saying that if he did not get her the monkey’s heart, she would surely die.
So the crocodile went to the rose apple tree and invited the monkey to come home to meet his wife. He told the monkey that he could ride across the river on the crocodile’s back. The monkey happily agreed. As they reached the middle of the river, the crocodile began to sink. The frightened monkey asked him why he was doing that. The crocodile explained that he would have to kill the monkey to save his wife’s life. The clever monkey told him that he would gladly give up his heart to save the life of the crocodile’s wife, but he had left his heart behind in the rose apple tree. He asked the crocodile to make haste and turn back so that the monkey could go get his heart from the apple tree.
The silly crocodile quickly swam back to the rose apple tree. The monkey scampered up the tree to safety. He told the crocodile to tell his wicked wife that she had married the biggest fool in the world.
Moral: Don’t underestimate yourself. There are bigger fools in this world.

Unity is strength
Once upon a time, there was a flock of doves that flew in search of food led by their king. One day, they had flown a long distance and were very tired. The dove king encouraged them to fly a little further. The smallest dove picked up speed and found some rice scattered beneath a banyan tree. So all the doves landed and began to eat.
Suddenly a net fell over them and they were all trapped. They saw a hunter approaching carrying a huge club. The doves desperately fluttered their wings trying to get out, but to no avail. The king had an idea. He advised all the doves to fly up together carrying the net with them. He said that there was strength in unity.
Each dove picked up a portion of the net and together they flew off carrying the net with them. The hunter looked up in astonishment. He tried to follow them, but they were flying high over hills and valleys. They flew to a hill near a city of temples where there lived a mouse who could help them. He was a faithful friend of the dove king.
When the mouse heard the loud noise of their approach, he went into hiding. The dove king gently called out to him and then the mouse was happy to see him. The dove king explained that they had been caught in a trap and needed the mouse’s help to gnaw at the net with his teeth and set them free.
The mouse agreed saying that he would set the king free first. The king insisted that he first free his subjects and the king last. The mouse understood the king’s feelings and complied with his wishes. He began to cut the net and one by one all the doves were freed including the dove king.
They all thanked the mouse and flew away together, united in their strength.
Moral: When you work together, you are stronger.

The little mouse
Once upon a time, there was a Baby Mouse and Mother Mouse. They lived in a hole in the skirting board in a big, warm house with lots of cheese to eat, where they wanted for nothing. Then, one day, Mother Mouse decided to take Baby Mouse outside of their home. Waiting outside for them was a huge ginger tomcat, licking its lips and waiting to eat them both up.
“Mother, Mother! What should we do?” Cried Baby Mouse, clinging to his mother’s tail. Mother Mouse paused, staring up into the beady eyes of the hungry cat. But she wasn’t scared because she knew exactly how to deal with big, scary cats. She opened her mouth and took in a deep breath.
“Woof! Woof! Bark bark bark!” She shouted, and the cat ran away as fast as he could.
“Wow, Mother! That was amazing!” Baby Mouse said to his mother, smiling happily.
“And that, my child, is why it is always best to have a second language.”
Moral: It’s always good to have a second language.

Birbal’s Wisdom
One fine day, Akbar lost his ring. When Birbal arrived in the court, Akbar told him “I have lost my ring. My father had given it to me as a gift. Please help me find it.”  Birbal said, ‘do not worry your Majesty, I will find your ring right now.’
He said, ”Your Majesty the ring is here in this court itself, it is with one of the courtiers.  The courtier who has a straw in his beard has your ring.”  The courtier who had the emperors ring was shocked and immediately moved his hand over his beard.  Birbal noticed this act of the courtier.  He immediately pointed towards the courtier and said, ”Please search this man. He has the emperors ring.”
Akbar could not understand how Birbal had Managed to find the ring.  Birbal then told Akbar that a guilty person is always scared.
Moral: A Guilty Conscience need No Accuser.

Birbal caught the Thief
Once a rich merchant’s house was robbed. The merchant suspected that the thief was one of his servants. So he went to Birbal and mentioned the incident. Birbal went to his house and assembled all of his servants and asked that who stole the merchant’s things. Everybody denied.
Birbal thought for a moment, then gave a stick of equal length to all the servants of the merchant and said to them that the stick of the real thief will be longer by two inches tomorrow. All the servants should be present here again tomorrow with their sticks.
All the servants went to their homes and gathered again at the same place the next day. Birbal asked them to show him their sticks. One of the servants had his stick shorter by two inches. Birbal said, “This is your thief, merchant.”
Later the merchant asked Birbal, “How did you catch him?” Birbal said, “The thief had already cut his stick short by two inches in the night fearing that his stick will be longer by two inches by morning.”
Moral: Truth will always Prevail.

The Fox and the Grapes
One afternoon a fox was walking through the forest and spotted a bunch of grapes hanging from over a lofty branch.
“Just the thing to quench my thirst,” he thought.
Taking a few steps back, the fox jumped and just missed the hanging grapes. Again the fox took a few paces back and tried to reach them but still failed.
Finally, giving up, the fox turned up his nose and said, “They’re probably sour anyway,” and proceeded to walk away.
Moral: It’s easy to despise what you cannot have.  Nothing comes easy without a hard work.  So, Work Hard and reach your goals.

The Rabbit and the Turtle
One day a rabbit was boasting about how fast he could run. He was laughing at the turtle for being so slow. Much to the rabbit’s surprise, the turtle challenged him to a race. The rabbit thought this was a good joke and accepted the challenge. The fox was to be the umpire of the race. As the race began, the rabbit raced way ahead of the turtle, just like everyone thought.
The rabbit got to the halfway point and could not see the turtle anywhere. He was hot and tired and decided to stop and take a short nap. Even if the turtle passed him, he would be able to race to the finish line ahead of him. All this time the turtle kept walking step by step by step. He never quit no matter how hot or tired he got. He just kept going.
However, the rabbit slept longer than he had thought and woke up. He could not see the turtle anywhere! He went at full speed to the finish line but found the turtle there waiting for him.
Moral: never underestimate the weakest opponent.

1 -LRB- 3 -RRB- Hollenmadchen .
2 ` But where is he to find the Witch-maiden ? '
3 said the first bird .
4 ` She has no settled dwelling , but is here to-day and gone to-morrow .
5 He might as well try to catch the wind . '
6 The other replied , ' I do not know , certainly , where she is at present , but in three nights from now she will come to the spring to wash her face , as she does every month when the moon is full , in order that she may never grow old nor wrinkled , but may always keep the bloom of youth . '
7 ` Well , ' said the first bird , ` the spring is not far from here .
8 Shall we go and see how it is she does it ? '
9 ` Willingly , if you like , ' said the other .
10 The youth immediately resolved to follow the birds to the spring , only two things made him uneasy : first , lest he might be asleep when the birds went , and secondly , lest he might lose sight of them , since he had not wings to carry him along so swiftly .
11 He was too tired to keep awake all night , yet his anxiety prevented him from sleeping soundly , and when with the earliest dawn he looked up to the tree-top , he was glad to see his feathered companions still asleep with their heads under their wings .
12 He ate his breakfast , and waited until the birds should start , but they did not leave the place all day .
13 They hopped about from one tree to another looking for food , all day long until the evening , when they went back to their old perch to sleep .
14 The next day the same thing happened , but on the third morning one bird said to the other , ` To-day we must go to the spring to see the Witch-maiden wash her face . '
15 They remained on the tree till noon ; then they flew away and went towards the south .
16 The young man 's heart beat with anxiety lest he should lose sight of his guides , but he managed to keep the birds in view until they again perched upon a tree .
17 The young man ran after them until he was quite exhausted and out of breath , and after three short rests the birds at length reached a small open space in the forest , on the edge of which they placed themselves on the top of a high tree .
18 When the youth had overtaken them , he saw that there was a clear spring in the middle of the space .
19 He sat down at the foot of the tree upon which the birds were perched , and listened attentively to what they were saying to each other .
20 ` The sun is not down yet , ' said the first bird ; ` we must wait yet awhile till the moon rises and the maiden comes to the spring .
21 Do you think she will see that young XXXXX sitting under the tree ? '	man		birds|food|maiden|man|middle|place|sight|south|wash|wings

1 When she got home she shut herself up in her room and cried .
2 There was nothing for her to do but resign , she thought dismally .
3 On the following Saturday Esther went for an afternoon walk , carrying her kodak with her .
4 It was a brilliantly fine autumn day , and woods and fields were basking in a mellow haze .
5 Esther went across lots to Mrs. Charley Cropper 's house , intending to make a call .
6 But the house was locked up and evidently deserted , so she rambled past it to the back fields .
7 Passing through a grove of maples she came out among leafy young saplings on the other side .
8 Just beyond her , with its laden boughs hanging over the line fence , was the famous plum tree .
9 Esther looked at it for a moment .
10 Then an odd smile gleamed over her face and she lifted her kodak .
11 Monday evening Esther called on Mr. Cropper again .
12 After the preliminary remarks in which he indulged , she said , with seeming irrelevance , that Saturday had been a fine day .
13 `` There was an excellent light for snapshots , '' she went on coolly .
14 `` I went out with my kodak and was lucky enough to get a good negative .
15 I have brought you up a proof .
16 I thought you would be interested in it . ''
17 She rose and placed the proof on the table before Mr. Cropper .
18 The plum tree came out clearly .
19 Bob and Alf Cropper were up among the boughs picking the plums .
20 On the ground beneath them stood their father with a basket of fruit in his hand .
21 Mr. Cropper looked at the XXXXX and from it to Esther .	proof		Saturday|boughs|face|father|home|nothing|proof|remarks|smile|woods

1 But it was in vain that he implored her to listen ; she only shook her head .
2 ` No , ' was all she would say ; ` you snatched me from my father whom I loved , and all the splendour in the world can never console me .
3 Go !
4 I can never feel anything towards you but hate and contempt . '
5 With these words she turned away and entered her own apartments .
6 Unknown to herself the Invisible Prince had followed her , but fearing to be discovered by the Princess in the presence of others , he made up his mind to wait quietly till dark ; and employed the long hours in writing a poem to the Princess , which he laid on the bed beside her .
7 This done , he thought of nothing but how best to deliver Rosalie , and he resolved to take advantage of a visit which the Prince of the Air paid every year to his mother and brothers in order to strike the blow .
8 One day Rosalie was sitting alone in her room thinking of her troubles when she suddenly saw a pen get up from off the desk and begin to write all by itself on a sheet of white paper .
9 As she did not know that it was guided by an invisible hand she was very much astonished , and the moment that the pen had ceased to move she instantly went over to the table , where she found some lovely verses , telling her that another shared her distresses , whatever they might be , and loved her with all his heart ; and that he would never rest until he had delivered her from the hands of the man she hated .
10 Thus encouraged , she told him all her story , and of the arrival of a young stranger in her father 's palace , whose looks had so charmed her that since that day she had thought of no one else .
11 At these words the Prince could contain himself no longer .
12 He took the pebble from his mouth , and flung himself at Rosalie 's feet .
13 When they had got over the first rapture of meeting they began to make plans to escape from the power of the Prince of the Air .
14 But this did not prove easy , for the magic stone would only serve for one person at a time , and in order to save Rosalie the Prince of the Golden Isle would have to expose himself to the fury of his enemy .
15 But Rosalie would not hear of this .
16 ` No , Prince , ' she said ; ` since you are here this island no longer feels a prison .
17 Besides , you are under the protection of a Fairy , who always visits your father 's court at this season .
18 Go instantly and seek her , and when she is found implore the gift of another stone with similar powers .
19 Once you have that , there will be no further difficulty in the way of escape . '
20 The Prince of the Air returned a few days later from his mother 's palace , but the Invisible Prince had already set out .
21 He had , however , entirely forgotten the road by which he had come , and lost himself for so long in the forest , that when at last he reached home the Fairy had already left , and , in spite of all his grief , there was XXXXX for it but to wait till the Fairy 's next visit , and allow Rosalie to suffer three months longer .	nothing		apartments|enemy|feet|gift|mouth|nothing|one|person|season|words

1 Be off , or I 'll kick you down stairs ! '
2 ` That is not said right , ' said the Caterpillar .
3 ` Not QUITE right , I 'm afraid , ' said Alice , timidly ; ` some of the words have got altered . '
4 ` It is wrong from beginning to end , ' said the Caterpillar decidedly , and there was silence for some minutes .
5 The Caterpillar was the first to speak .
6 ` What size do you want to be ? '
7 it asked .
8 ` Oh , I 'm not particular as to size , ' Alice hastily replied ; ` only one does n't like changing so often , you know . ' '
9 I DO N'T know , ' said the Caterpillar .
10 Alice said nothing : she had never been so much contradicted in her life before , and she felt that she was losing her temper .
11 ` Are you content now ? '
12 said the Caterpillar .
13 ` Well , I should like to be a LITTLE larger , sir , if you would n't mind , ' said Alice : ` three inches is such a wretched height to be . '
14 ` It is a very good height indeed ! '
15 said the Caterpillar angrily , rearing itself upright as it spoke -LRB- it was exactly three inches high -RRB- .
16 ` But I 'm not used to it ! '
17 pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone .
18 And she thought of herself , ' I wish the creatures would n't be so easily offended ! '
19 ` You 'll get used to it in time , ' said the Caterpillar ; and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again .
20 This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again .
21 In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its XXXXX and yawned once or twice , and shook itself .	mouth		creatures|height|inches|life|mouth|nothing|size|stairs|time|tone

1 And the Law does not say who may or may not pay that price .
2 Am I right ? ''
3 `` Good !
4 Good ! ''
5 said the young wolves , who are always hungry .
6 `` Listen to Bagheera .
7 The cub can be bought for a price .
8 It is the Law . ''
9 `` Knowing that I have no right to speak here , I ask your leave . ''
10 `` Speak then , '' cried twenty voices .
11 `` To kill a naked cub is shame .
12 Besides , he may make better sport for you when he is grown .
13 Baloo has spoken in his behalf .
14 Now to Baloo 's word I will add one bull , and a fat one , newly killed , not half a mile from here , if ye will accept the man 's cub according to the Law .
15 Is it difficult ? ''
16 There was a clamor of scores of voices , saying : `` What matter ?
17 He will die in the winter rains .
18 He will scorch in the sun .
19 What harm can a naked frog do us ?
20 Let him run with the Pack .
21 Where is the XXXXX , Bagheera ?	bull		behalf|bull|frog|harm|leave|mile|price|sport|sun|word

1 said Alice ; ' I must be shutting up like a telescope . '
2 And so it was indeed : she was now only ten inches high , and her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden .
3 First , however , she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further : she felt a little nervous about this ; ` for it might end , you know , ' said Alice to herself , ` in my going out altogether , like a candle .
4 I wonder what I should be like then ? '
5 And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out , for she could not remember ever having seen such a thing .
6 After a while , finding that nothing more happened , she decided on going into the garden at once ; but , alas for poor Alice !
7 when she got to the door , she found she had forgotten the little golden key , and when she went back to the table for it , she found she could not possibly reach it : she could see it quite plainly through the glass , and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table , but it was too slippery ; and when she had tired herself out with trying , the poor little thing sat down and cried .
8 ` Come , there 's no use in crying like that ! '
9 said Alice to herself , rather sharply ; ' I advise you to leave off this minute ! '
10 She generally gave herself very good advice , -LRB- though she very seldom followed it -RRB- , and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes ; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself , for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people .
11 ` But it 's no use now , ' thought poor Alice , ` to pretend to be two people !
12 Why , there 's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable person ! '
13 Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table : she opened it , and found in it a very small cake , on which the words ` EAT ME ' were beautifully marked in currants .
14 ` Well , I 'll eat it , ' said Alice , ` and if it makes me grow larger , I can reach the key ; and if it makes me grow smaller , I can creep under the door ; so either way I 'll get into the garden , and I do n't care which happens ! '
15 She ate a little bit , and said anxiously to herself , ` Which way ?
16 Which way ? '
17 , holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing , and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size : to be sure , this generally happens when one eats cake , but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen , that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way .
18 So she set to work , and very soon finished off the cake .
19 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * CHAPTER II .
20 The Pool of Tears ` Curiouser and curiouser ! '
21 cried Alice -LRB- she was so much surprised , that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English -RRB- ; ` now I 'm opening out like the largest XXXXX that ever was !	telescope		CHAPTER|child|ears|eyes|face|glass|minute|telescope|thought|use

1 It had occurred to Nora that this was the case , but as yet she had never troubled to think the situation over seriously .
2 She liked Clark Bryant well enough , but just at the moment he was in the way .
3 She did not want to take him over to Racicot -- just why she could not have explained .
4 There was in her no snobbish shame of her humble home .
5 But he did not belong there ; he was an alien , and she wished to go back to it for the first time alone .
6 At the boathouse Davy launched the small sailboat and Nora took the tiller .
7 She knew every inch of the harbour .
8 As the sail filled before the wind and the boat sprang across the upcurling waves , her brief sullenness fell away from her .
9 She no longer resented Clark Bryant 's presence -- she forgot it .
10 He was no more to her than the mast by which he stood .
11 The spell of the sea and the wind surged into her heart and filled it with wild happiness and measureless content .
12 Over yonder , where the lights gleamed on the darkening shore under the high-sprung arch of pale golden sky , was home .
13 How the wind whistled to welcome her back !
14 The lash of it against her face -- the flick of salt spray on her lips -- the swing of the boat as it cut through the racing crests -- how glorious it all was !
15 Clark Bryant watched her , understanding all at once that he was nothing to her , that he had no part or lot in her heart .
16 He was as one forgotten and left behind .
17 And how lovely , how desirable she was !
18 He had never seen her look so beautiful .
19 The shawl had slipped down to her shoulders and her head rose out of it like some magnificent flower out of a crimson calyx .
20 The masses of her black hair lifted from her face in the rush of the wind and swayed back again like rich shadows .
21 Her lips were stung scarlet with the XXXXX 's sharp caresses , and her eyes , large and splendid , looked past him unseeing to the harbour lights of Racicot .	sea		arch|content|flower|hair|inch|masses|mast|sailboat|sea|tiller

1 ` Take great care to hold me tight ! '
2 said the Darning-needle to the Fingers who were holding her .
3 ` Do n't let me fall !
4 If I once fall on the ground I shall never be found again , I am so fine ! '
5 ` It is all right ! '
6 said the Fingers , seizing her round the waist .
7 ` Look , I am coming with my train ! '
8 said the Darning-needle as she drew a long thread after her ; but there was no knot at the end of the thread .
9 The Fingers were using the needle on the cook 's shoe .
10 The upper leather was unstitched and had to be sewn together .
11 ` This is common work ! '
12 said the Darning-needle . '
13 I shall never get through it .
14 I am breaking !
15 I am breaking ! '
16 And in fact she did break .
17 ` Did n't I tell you so ! '
18 said the Darning-needle . '
19 I am too fine ! '
20 ` Now she is good for nothing ! '
21 said the Fingers ; but they had to hold her tight while the XXXXX dropped some sealing-wax on the needle and stuck it in the front of her dress .	cook		Fingers|break|cook|fact|ground|needle|round|thread|train|waist

1 The creature fell heavily on the ground , and out of its side sprang a little hare , which ran like the wind along the river bank .
2 The Prince drew his bow once more , and the hare lay dead at his feet ; but at the same moment a dove rose up in the air , and circled round the Prince 's head in the most confiding manner .
3 But mindful of the black girl 's commands , he dared not spare the little creature 's life , and taking another arrow from his quiver he laid it as dead as the boar and the hare .
4 But when he went to look at the body of the bird he found instead of the dove a round white egg lying on the ground .
5 While he was gazing on it and wondering what it could mean , he heard the sweeping of wings above him , and looking up he saw a huge vulture with open claws swooping down upon him .
6 In a moment he seized the egg and flung it at the bird with all his might , and lo and behold !
7 instead of the ugly monster the most beautiful girl he had ever seen stood before the astonished eyes of the Prince .
8 But while all this was going on the wicked old Fairy had managed to make her way out of the wood , and was now using the last resource in her power to overtake her daughter and the Prince .
9 As soon as she was in the open again she mounted her chariot , which was drawn by a fiery dragon , and flew through the air in it .
10 But just as she got to the river she saw the two lovers in each other 's arms swimming through the water as easily as two fishes .
11 Quick as lightning , and forgetful of every danger , she flew down upon them .
12 But the waters seized her chariot and sunk it in the lowest depths , and the waves bore the wicked old woman down the stream till she was caught in some thorn bushes , where she made a good meal for all the little fishes that were swimming about .
13 And so at last the Prince and his lovely Bride were free .
14 They hurried as quickly as they could to the old King , who received them with joy and gladness .
15 On the following day a most gorgeous wedding feast was held , and as far as we know the Prince and his bride lived happily for ever afterwards .
16 THE DEAD WIFE -LRB- 20 -RRB- -LRB- 20 -RRB- From the Iroquois .
17 Once upon a time there were a man and his wife who lived in the forest , very far from the rest of the tribe .
18 Very often they spent the day in hunting together , but after a while the wife found that she had so many things to do that she was obliged to stay at home ; so he went alone , though he found that when his wife was not with him he never had any luck .
19 One day , when he was away hunting , the woman fell ill , and in a few days she died .
20 Her husband grieved bitterly , and buried her in the house where she had passed her life ; but as the time went on he felt so lonely without her that he made a wooden doll about her height and size for company , and dressed it in her clothes .
21 He seated it in front of the fire , and tried to think he had his XXXXX back again .	wife		boar|daughter|fishes|forest|husband|lovers|manner|resource|waters|wife

1 She carried the pepper-box in her hand , and Alice guessed who it was , even before she got into the court , by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once .
2 ` Give your evidence , ' said the King .
3 ` Sha n't , ' said the cook .
4 The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit , who said in a low voice , ` Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness . '
5 ` Well , if I must , I must , ' the King said , with a melancholy air , and , after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight , he said in a deep voice , ` What are tarts made of ? '
6 ` Pepper , mostly , ' said the cook .
7 ` Treacle , ' said a sleepy voice behind her .
8 ` Collar that Dormouse , ' the Queen shrieked out .
9 ` Behead that Dormouse !
10 Turn that Dormouse out of court !
11 Suppress him !
12 Pinch him !
13 Off with his whiskers ! '
14 For some minutes the whole court was in confusion , getting the Dormouse turned out , and , by the time they had settled down again , the cook had disappeared .
15 ` Never mind ! '
16 said the King , with an air of great relief .
17 ` Call the next witness . '
18 And he added in an undertone to the Queen , ` Really , my dear , YOU must cross-examine the next witness .
19 It quite makes my forehead ache ! '
20 Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list , feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like , ' -- for they have n't got much evidence YET , ' she said to herself .
21 Imagine her surprise , when the White Rabbit read out , at the top of his shrill little XXXXX , the name ` Alice ! '	voice		Pepper|cook|court|door|evidence|eyes|people|voice|whiskers|witness

1 `` Very well .
2 But please do n't look at me while I 'm telling you .
3 I 'll be sure to blush in places .
4 When Beatrix wants to be particularly aggravating she says I have lost the art of blushing .
5 But that is only her way of putting it , you know .
6 Sometimes I blush dreadfully . ''
7 The Young Man dragged his eyes from the face under the black-and-yellow hat , and fastened them on a crooked pine tree that hung out over the bank .
8 `` Well , '' began the Girl , `` the root of the whole trouble is simply this .
9 There is a young man in England .
10 I always think of him as the Creature .
11 He is the son of a man who was Father 's especial crony in boyhood , before Father emigrated to Canada .
12 Worse than that , he comes of a family which has contracted a vile habit of marrying into our family .
13 It has come down through the ages so long that it has become chronic .
14 Father left most of his musty traditions in England , but he brought this pet one with him .
15 He and this friend agreed that the latter 's son should marry one of Father 's daughters .
16 It ought to have been Beatrix -- she is the oldest .
17 But Beatrix had a pug nose .
18 So Father settled on me .
19 From my earliest recollection I have been given to understand that just as soon as I grew up there would be a ready-made husband imported from England for me .
20 I was doomed to it from my cradle .
21 Now , '' said the XXXXX , with a tragic gesture , `` I ask you , could anything be more hopelessly , appallingly stupid and devoid of romance than that ? ''	Girl		Girl|daughters|hat|husband|latter|man|places|root|tree|trouble

1 ` Now , ' she said , ` put the ring upon the thumb of your left hand , and you will see how strong that hand has become .
2 The youth did so , and found to his astonishment that with a single blow of his fist the stone flew into a thousand pieces .
3 Then the youth bethought him that he who does not use his luck when he has it is a fool , and that this was a chance which once lost might never return .
4 So while they stood laughing at the shattered stone he placed the ring , as if in play , upon the third finger of his left hand .
5 ` Now , ' said the maiden , ` you are invisible to me until you take the ring off again . '
6 But the youth had no mind to do that ; on the contrary , he went farther off , then put the ring on the little finger of his left hand , and soared into the air like a bird .
7 When the maiden saw him flying away she thought at first that he was still in play , and cried , ` Come back , friend , for now you see I have told you the truth . '
8 But the young man never came back .
9 Then the maiden saw she was deceived , and bitterly repented that she had ever trusted him with the ring .
10 The young man never halted in his flight until he reached the dwelling of the wise magician who had taught him the speech of birds .
11 The magician was delighted to find that his search had been successful , and at once set to work to interpret the secret signs engraved upon the ring , but it took him seven weeks to make them out clearly .
12 Then he gave the youth the following instructions how to overcome the Dragon of the North : ` You must have an iron horse cast , which must have little wheels under each foot .
13 You must also be armed with a spear two fathoms long , which you will be able to wield by means of the magic ring upon your left thumb .
14 The spear must be as thick in the middle as a large tree , and both its ends must be sharp .
15 In the middle of the spear you must have two strong chains ten fathoms in length .
16 As soon as the Dragon has made himself fast to the spear , which you must thrust through his jaws , you must spring quickly from the iron horse and fasten the ends of the chains firmly to the ground with iron stakes , so that he can not get away from them .
17 After two or three days the monster 's strength will be so far exhausted that you will be able to come near him .
18 Then you can put Solomon 's ring upon your left thumb and give him the finishing stroke , but keep the ring on your third finger until you have come close to him , so that the monster can not see you , else he might strike you dead with his long tail .
19 But when all is done , take care you do not lose the ring , and that no one takes it from you by cunning . '
20 The young man thanked the magician for his directions , and promised , should they succeed , to reward him .
21 But the XXXXX answered , ' I have profited so much by the wisdom the ring has taught me that I desire no other reward . '	magician		Dragon|dwelling|finger|jaws|magician|maiden|monster|ring|stroke|thumb

1 They danced and played different games till midnight ; then one of the Giants tore up a plant by its roots , and all the Giants and Giantesses made themselves so thin that they disappeared into the earth through the hole made by the uprooting of the plant .
2 The wounded Giant remained behind to the last and called out , ` Herd-boy , where are you ? '
3 ` Here I am , close to you , ' was the reply .
4 ` Touch me , ' said the Giant , ` so that you too may come with us under ground . '
5 The Herd-boy did as he was told , and before he could have believed it possible he found himself in a big hall , where even the walls were made of pure gold .
6 Then to his astonishment he saw that the hall was furnished with the tables and chairs that belonged to his master .
7 In a few minutes the company began to eat and drink .
8 The banquet was a very gorgeous one , and the poor youth fell to and ate and drank lustily .
9 When he had eaten and drunk as much as he could he thought to himself , ` Why should n't I put a loaf of bread in my pocket ?
10 I shall be glad of it to-morrow . '
11 So he seized a loaf when no one was looking and stowed it away under his tunic .
12 No sooner had he done so than the wounded Giant limped up to him and whispered softly , ` Herd-boy , where are you ? '
13 ` Here I am , ' replied the youth .
14 ` Then hold on to me , ' said the Giant , ` so that I may lead you up above again . '
15 So the Herd-boy held on to the Giant , and in a few moments he found himself on the earth once more , but the Giant had vanished .
16 The Herd-boy returned to his sheep , and took off the invisible belt which he hid carefully in his bag .
17 The next morning the lad felt hungry , and thought he would cut off a piece of the loaf he had carried away from the Giants ' wedding feast , and eat it .
18 But although he tried with all his might , he could n't cut off the smallest piece .
19 Then in despair he bit the loaf , and what was his astonishment when a piece of gold fell out of his mouth and rolled at his feet .
20 He bit the bread a second and third time , and each time a piece of gold fell out of his mouth ; but the bread remained untouched .
21 The Herd-boy was very much delighted over his stroke of good fortune , and , hiding the magic loaf in his XXXXX , he hurried off to the nearest village to buy himself something to eat , and then returned to his sheep .	bag		bag|banquet|company|despair|earth|master|moments|morning|sheep|tunic

1 ` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' said the hag .
2 ` Die , then , ' said the girl .
3 ` Well , then , take it , you brat , ' said the old hag , ` and be off with you , and make haste with the water . '
4 The girl took the gold and ran out with it , and it was so bright that it shone all over the plain .
5 As soon as she came to the river she lay down to take a drink of the water , but meanwhile the two of them had got down off the roof and thrust her , head first , into the river .
6 The old hag began now to long for the water , and said that the girl would be running about with the gold piece all over the plain , so she asked her son to go and get her a drop of water . '
7 I wo n't go , ' said he , ` unless I get the gold cloak . '
8 ` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' said the hag .
9 ` Die , then , ' said the son .
10 ` Well , then , take it , ' said the old hag , ` and be off with you , but you must make haste with the water . '
11 He put on the cloak , and when he came outside it shone so bright that he could see to go with it .
12 On reaching the river he went to take a drink like his sister , but at that moment Ring and Snati sprang upon him , took the cloak from him , and threw him into the river .
13 The old hag could stand the thirst no longer , and asked her husband to go for a drink for her ; the brats , she said , were of course running about and playing themselves , just as she had expected they would , little wretches that they were . '
14 I wo n't go , ' said the old troll , ` unless you lend me the gold chess-board . '
15 ` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' said the hag . '
16 I think you may just as well do that , ' said he , ` since you wo n't grant me such a little favour . '
17 ` Take it , then , you utter disgrace ! '
18 said the old hag , ` since you are just like these two brats . '
19 The old troll now went out with the gold chess-board , and down to the river , and was about to take a drink , when Ring and Snati came upon him , took the chess-board from him , and threw him into the river .
20 Before they had got back again , however , and up on top of the cave , they saw the poor old fellow 's ghost come marching up from the river .
21 Snati immediately sprang upon him , and XXXXX assisted in the attack , and after a hard struggle they mastered him a second time .	Ring		Ring|cave|cloak|course|disgrace|girl|gold|haste|sister|top

1 ` Oh , go with me ; if we five are together , we shall easily travel through the wide world . '
2 So he went with him , and , not long afterwards , they met a man who wore a little hat , but he had it slouched over one ear .
3 ` Manners , manners ! '
4 said the master to him ; ` do n't hang your hat over one ear ; you look like a madman ! ' '
5 I dare not , ' said the other , ` for if I were to put my hat on straight , there would come such a frost that the very birds in the sky would freeze and fall dead on the earth . '
6 ` Oh , go with me , ' said the master ; ` if we six are together , we shall easily travel through the wide world .
7 Now the Six came to a town in which the King had proclaimed that whoever should run with his daughter in a race , and win , should become her husband ; but if he lost , he must lose his head .
8 This was reported to the man who declared he would compete , ` but , ' he said , ' I shall let my servant run for me . '
9 The King replied , ` Then both your heads must be staked , and your head and his must be guaranteed for the winner . '
10 When this was agreed upon and settled , the man strapped on the runner 's other leg , saying to him , ` Now be nimble , and see that we win ! '
11 It was arranged that whoever should first bring water out of a stream a long way off , should be the victor .
12 Then the runner got a pitcher , and the King 's daughter another , and they began to run at the same time ; but in a moment , when the King 's daughter was only just a little way off , no spectator could see the runner , and it seemed as if the wind had whistled past .
13 In a short time he reached the stream , filled his pitcher with water , and turned round again .
14 But , half way home , a great drowsiness came over him ; he put down his pitcher , lay down , and fell asleep .
15 He had , however , put a horse 's skull which was lying on the ground , for his pillow , so that he should not be too comfortable and might soon wake up .
16 In the meantime the King 's daughter , who could also run well , as well as an ordinary man could , reached the stream , and hastened back with her pitcher full of water .
17 When she saw the runner lying there asleep , she was delighted , and said , ` My enemy is given into my hands ! '
18 She emptied his pitcher and ran on .
19 Everything now would have been lost , if by good luck the hunter had not been standing on the castle tower and had seen everything with his sharp eyes .
20 ` Ah , ' said he , ` the King 's daughter shall not overreach us ; ' and , loading his gun , he shot so cleverly , that he shot away the horse 's skull from under the runner 's head , without its hurting him .
21 Then the runner awoke , jumped up , and saw that his pitcher was empty and the King 's XXXXX far ahead .	daughter		daughter|husband|man|manners|past|skull|sky|spectator|stream|town

1 I ought to know , perhaps , if I am to be of any service -- but I have no wish to hear idle gossip . ''
2 His concluding sentence was quite unheeded by Galletly .
3 `` Min Palmer 's the worst woman in Rykman 's Corner -- or out of it .
4 She always was an odd one .
5 I mind her when she was a girl -- a saucy , black-eyed baggage she was !
6 Handsome , some folks called her .
7 I never c 'd see it .
8 Her people were a queer crowd and Min was never brung up right -- jest let run wild all her life .
9 Well , Rod Palmer took to dancin ' attendance on her .
10 Rod was a worthless scamp .
11 Old Palmer was well off and Rod was his only child , but this Rose lived there and kept house for them after Mis ' Palmer died .
12 She was a quiet , well-behaved little creetur .
13 Folks said the old man wanted Rod to marry her -- dunno if 't was so or not .
14 In the end , howsomever , he had to marry Min .
15 Her brother got after him with a horse-whip , ye understand .
16 Old Palmer was furious but he had to give in and Rod brought her home .
17 She was a bit sobered down by her trouble and lived quiet and sullen-like at first .
18 Her and Rod fought like cat and dog .
19 Rose married Osh Fuller , a worthless , drunken fellow .
20 He died in a year or so and left Rose and her baby without a roof over their heads .
21 Then old Palmer went and brought her XXXXX .	home		Palmer|attendance|baggage|bit|fellow|gossip|home|saucy|service|wish

1 The old woman went , and soon returned along with the Princess .
2 She and the Irishman recognised each other , and were married , and had a great wedding that lasted for a year and a day .
3 THE TINDER-BOX A soldier came marching along the high road -- left , right !
4 A left , right !
5 He had his knapsack on his back and a sword by his side , for he had been to the wars and was now returning home .
6 An old Witch met him on the road .
7 She was very ugly to look at : her under-lip hung down to her breast .
8 ` Good evening , Soldier ! '
9 she said .
10 ` What a fine sword and knapsack you have !
11 You are something like a soldier !
12 You ought to have as much money as you would like to carry ! '
13 ` Thank you , old Witch , ' said the Soldier .
14 ` Do you see that great tree there ? '
15 said the Witch , pointing to a tree beside them .
16 ` It is hollow within .
17 You must climb up to the top , and then you will see a hole through which you can let yourself down into the tree .
18 I will tie a rope round your waist , so that I may be able to pull you up again when you call . '
19 ` What shall I do down there ? '
20 asked the Soldier .
21 ` Get XXXXX ! '	money		Witch|breast|hole|money|road|sword|top|wars|wedding|woman

1 John Drew is a cousin of mine .
2 He 's been living out at Poplar Valley and he writes me that he has gone out west , and wants me to take ` old Nap . '
3 I suppose that is the horse .
4 He says that Nap is getting old and not much use for work and he could n't bear the thought of shooting him or selling him to someone who might ill-treat him , so he wants me to take him and be kind to him for old times ' sake .
5 John and I were just like brother and sister when we were children .
6 If this is n't like him nothing ever was .
7 He was always doing odd things and thinking they were all right .
8 And now he 's off west and here is the horse .
9 If it were a cat or a dog -- but a horse ! ''
10 `` Your four-acre field will come in handy now , '' said Cynthia Ann jestingly .
11 `` So it will . ''
12 Miss Cordelia spoke absently .
13 `` The very thing !
14 Yes , I 'll put him in there . ''
15 `` But you do n't really mean that you 're going to keep the horse , are you ? ''
16 protested Cynthia Ann .
17 `` Why , he is no good to you -- and think of the expense of feeding him ! ''
18 `` I 'll keep him for a while , '' said Miss Cordelia briskly .
19 `` As you say , there is the four-acre field .
20 It will keep him in eating for a while .
21 I always knew that XXXXX had a mission .	field		Miss|cat|dog|expense|field|nothing|thing|things|west|while

1 THE WIZARD KING -LRB- 14 -RRB- -LRB- 14 -RRB- From Les fees illustres .
2 In very ancient times there lived a King , whose power lay not only in the vast extent of his dominions , but also in the magic secrets of which he was master .
3 After spending the greater part of his early youth in pleasure , he met a Princess of such remarkable beauty that he at once asked her hand in marriage , and , having obtained it , considered himself the happiest of men .
4 After a year 's time a son was born , worthy in every way of such distinguished parents , and much admired by the whole Court .
5 As soon as the Queen thought him strong enough for a journey she set out with him secretly to visit her Fairy godmother .
6 I said secretly , because the Fairy had warned the Queen that the King was a magician ; and as from time immemorial there had been a standing feud between the Fairies and the Wizards , he might not have approved of his wife 's visit .
7 The Fairy godmother , who took the deepest interest in all the Queen 's concerns , and who was much pleased with the little Prince , endowed him with the power of pleasing everybody from his cradle , as well as with a wonderful ease in learning everything which could help to make him a perfectly accomplished Prince .
8 Accordingly , to the delight of his teachers , he made the most rapid progress in his education , constantly surpassing everyone 's expectations .
9 Before he was many years old , however , he had the great sorrow of losing his mother , whose last words were to advise him never to undertake anything of importance without consulting the Fairy under whose protection she had placed him .
10 The Prince 's grief at the death of his mother was great , but it was nothing compared to that of the King , his father , who was quite inconsolable for the loss of his dear wife .
11 Neither time nor reason seemed to lighten his sorrow , and the sight of all the familiar faces and things about him only served to remind him of his loss .
12 He therefore resolved to travel for change , and by means of his magic art was able to visit every country he came to see under different shapes , returning every few weeks to the place where he had left a few followers .
13 Having travelled from land to land in this fashion without finding anything to rivet his attention , it occurred to him to take the form of an eagle , and in this shape he flew across many countries and arrived at length in a new and lovely spot , where the air seemed filled with the scent of jessamine and orange flowers with which the ground was thickly planted .
14 Attracted by the sweet perfume he flew lower , and perceived some large and beautiful gardens filled with the rarest flowers , and with fountains throwing up their clear waters into the air in a hundred different shapes .
15 A wide stream flowed through the garden , and on it floated richly ornamented barges and gondolas filled with people dressed in the most elegant manner and covered with jewels .
16 In one of these barges sat the Queen of that country with her only daughter , a maiden more beautiful than the Day Star , and attended by the ladies of the Court .
17 No more exquisitely lovely mortal was ever seen than this Princess , and it needed all an eagle 's strength of sight to prevent the King being hopelessly dazzled .
18 He perched on the top of a large orange tree , whence he was able to survey the scene and to gaze at pleasure on the Princess 's charms .
19 Now , an eagle with a King 's heart in his breast is apt to be bold , and accordingly he instantly made up his mind to carry off the lovely damsel , feeling sure that having once seen her he could not live without her .
20 He waited till he saw her in the act of stepping ashore , when , suddenly swooping down , he carried her off before her equerry in attendance had advanced to offer her his hand .
21 The Princess , on finding herself in an eagle 's talons , uttered the most heart-breaking shrieks and cries ; but her captor , though touched by her distress , would not abandon his lovely prey , and continued to fly through the XXXXX too fast to allow of his saying anything to comfort her .	air		Fairy|air|breast|daughter|extent|flowers|nothing|parents|son|waters

1 ` And can you make such a ship ? '
2 ` Not I. ' ` Then why in the world are you going ? '
3 ` Ca n't tell , ' replied the Simpleton .
4 ` Well , if that is the case , ' said the manikin , ` sit down beside me ; we can rest for a little and have something to eat .
5 Give me what you have got in your satchel . '
6 Now , the poor Simpleton was ashamed to show what was in it .
7 However , he thought it best not to make a fuss , so he opened the satchel , and could scarcely believe his own eyes , for , instead of the hard crust , he saw two beautiful fresh rolls and some cold meat .
8 He shared them with the manikin , who licked his lips and said : ` Now , go into that wood , and stop in front of the first tree , bow three times , and then strike the tree with your axe , fall on your knees on the ground , with your face on the earth , and remain there till you are raised up .
9 You will then find a ship at your side , step into it and fly to the King 's Palace .
10 If you meet anyone on the way , take him with you . '
11 The Simpleton thanked the manikin very kindly , bade him farewell , and went into the road .
12 When he got to the first tree he stopped in front of it , did everything just as he had been told , and , kneeling on the ground with his face to the earth , fell asleep .
13 After a little time he was aroused ; he awoke and , rubbing his eyes , saw a ready-made ship at his side , and at once got into it .
14 And the ship rose and rose , and in another minute was flying through the air , when the Simpleton , who was on the look out , cast his eyes down to the earth and saw a man beneath him on the road , who was kneeling with his ear upon the damp ground .
15 ` Hallo ! '
16 he called out , ` what are you doing down there ? ' '
17 I am listening to what is going on in the world , ' replied the man .
18 ` Come with me in my ship , ' said the Simpleton .
19 So the man was only too glad , and got in beside him ; and the ship flew , and flew , and flew through the air , till again from his outlook the Simpleton saw a man on the road below , who was hopping on one leg , while his other leg was tied up behind his ear .
20 So he hailed him , calling out : ` Hallo !
21 what are you doing , hopping on one XXXXX ? ' '	leg		crust|face|fall|leg|manikin|rolls|step|way|wood|world

1 ` Hold your tongue ! '
2 added the Gryphon , before Alice could speak again .
3 The Mock Turtle went on .
4 ` We had the best of educations -- in fact , we went to school every day -- ' ` I 'VE been to a day-school , too , ' said Alice ; ` you need n't be so proud as all that . '
5 ` With extras ? '
6 asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously .
7 ` Yes , ' said Alice , ` we learned French and music . '
8 ` And washing ? '
9 said the Mock Turtle .
10 ` Certainly not ! '
11 said Alice indignantly .
12 ` Ah !
13 then yours was n't a really good school , ' said the Mock Turtle in a tone of great relief .
14 ` Now at OURS they had at the end of the bill , `` French , music , AND WASHING -- extra . '' '
15 ` You could n't have wanted it much , ' said Alice ; ` living at the bottom of the sea . ' '
16 I could n't afford to learn it . '
17 said the Mock Turtle with a sigh . '
18 I only took the regular course . '
19 ` What was that ? '
20 inquired Alice .
21 ` Reeling and Writhing , of XXXXX , to begin with , ' the Mock Turtle replied ; ` and then the different branches of Arithmetic -- Ambition , Distraction , Uglification , and Derision . ' '	course		OURS|WASHING|bill|bottom|course|educations|extras|fact|school|tongue

1 When the King came to be bowed down with the weight of years he spoke to his son , and said that now it was time for him to look out for a fitting match for himself , for he did not know how long he might last now , and he would like to see him married before he died .
2 Sigurd was not averse to this , and asked his father where he thought it best to look for a wife .
3 The King answered that in a certain country there was a King who had a beautiful daughter , and he thought it would be most desirable if Sigurd could get her .
4 So the two parted , and Sigurd prepared for the journey , and went to where his father had directed him .
5 He came to the King and asked his daughter 's hand , which he readily granted him , but only on the condition that he should remain there as long as he could , for the King himself was not strong and not very able to govern his kingdom .
6 Sigurd accepted this condition , but added that he would have to get leave to go home again to his own country when he heard news of his father 's death .
7 After that Sigurd married the Princess , and helped his father-in-law to govern the kingdom .
8 He and the Princess loved each other dearly , and after a year a son came to them , who was two years old when word came to Sigurd that his father was dead .
9 Sigurd now prepared to return home with his wife and child , and went on board ship to go by sea .
10 They had sailed for several days , when the breeze suddenly fell , and there came a dead calm , at a time when they needed only one day 's voyage to reach home .
11 Sigurd and his Queen were one day on deck , when most of the others on the ship had fallen asleep .
12 There they sat and talked for a while , and had their little son along with them .
13 After a time Sigurd became so heavy with sleep that he could no longer keep awake , so he went below and lay down , leaving the Queen alone on the deck , playing with her son .
14 A good while after Sigurd had gone below the Queen saw something black on the sea , which seemed to be coming nearer .
15 As it approached she could make out that it was a boat , and could see the figure of some one sitting in it and rowing it .
16 At last the boat came alongside the ship , and now the Queen saw that it was a stone boat , out of which there came up on board the ship a fearfully ugly Witch .
17 The Queen was more frightened than words can describe , and could neither speak a word nor move from the place so as to awaken the King or the sailors .
18 The Witch came right up to the Queen , took the child from her and laid it on the deck ; then she took the Queen , and stripped her of all her fine clothes , which she proceeded to put on herself , and looked then like a human being .
19 Last of all she took the Queen , put her into the boat , and said -- ` This spell I lay upon you , that you slacken not your course until you come to my brother in the Underworld . '
20 The Queen sat stunned and motionless , but the boat at once shot away from the ship with her , and before long she was out of sight .
21 When the boat could no longer be seen the XXXXX began to cry , and though the Witch tried to quiet it she could not manage it ; so she went below to where the King was sleeping with the child on her arm , and awakened him , scolding him for leaving them alone on deck , while he and all the crew were asleep .	child		brother|child|daughter|figure|hand|journey|time|weight|wife|words

1 said Alice loudly .
2 ` The idea of having the sentence first ! '
3 ` Hold your tongue ! '
4 said the Queen , turning purple . '
5 I wo n't ! '
6 said Alice .
7 ` Off with her head ! '
8 the Queen shouted at the top of her voice .
9 Nobody moved .
10 ` Who cares for you ? '
11 said Alice , -LRB- she had grown to her full size by this time . -RRB-
12 ` You 're nothing but a pack of cards ! '
13 At this the whole pack rose up into the air , and came flying down upon her : she gave a little scream , half of fright and half of anger , and tried to beat them off , and found herself lying on the bank , with her head in the lap of her sister , who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face .
14 ` Wake up , Alice dear ! '
15 said her sister ; ` Why , what a long sleep you 've had ! '
16 ` Oh , I 've had such a curious dream ! '
17 said Alice , and she told her sister , as well as she could remember them , all these strange Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about ; and when she had finished , her sister kissed her , and said , ` It WAS a curious dream , dear , certainly : but now run in to your tea ; it 's getting late . '
18 So Alice got up and ran off , thinking while she ran , as well she might , what a wonderful dream it had been .
19 But her sister sat still just as she left her , leaning her head on her hand , watching the setting sun , and thinking of little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures , till she too began dreaming after a fashion , and this was her dream : -- First , she dreamed of little Alice herself , and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee , and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers -- she could hear the very tones of her voice , and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes -- and still as she listened , or seemed to listen , the whole place around her became alive with the strange creatures of her little sister 's dream .
20 The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by -- the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool -- she could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal , and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution -- once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the Duchess 's knee , while plates and dishes crashed around it -- once more the shriek of the Gryphon , the squeaking of the Lizard 's slate-pencil , and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs , filled the air , mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle .
21 So she sat on , with closed eyes , and half believed herself in Wonderland , though she knew she had but to open them again , and all would change to dull reality -- the grass would be only rustling in the wind , and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds -- the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells , and the Queen 's shrill cries to the XXXXX of the shepherd boy -- and the sneeze of the baby , the shriek of the Gryphon , and all the other queer noises , would change -LRB- she knew -RRB- to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard -- while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle 's heavy sobs .	voice		March|dream|head|idea|pool|scream|shriek|sleep|tongue|voice

1 No sooner had Ferko entered the palace than all eyes were turned on the handsome youth , and the King 's daughter herself was lost in admiration , for she had never seen anyone so handsome in her life before .
2 His brothers noticed this , and envy and jealousy were added to their fear , so much so that they determined once more to destroy him .
3 They went to the King and told him that Ferko was a wicked magician , who had come to the palace with the intention of carrying off the Princess .
4 Then the King had Ferko brought before him , and said , ` You are accused of being a magician who wishes to rob me of my daughter , and I condemn you to death ; but if you can fulfil three tasks which I shall set you to do your life shall be spared , on condition you leave the country ; but if you can not perform what I demand you shall be hung on the nearest tree . '
5 And turning to the two wicked brothers he said , ` Suggest something for him to do ; no matter how difficult , he must succeed in it or die . '
6 They did not think long , but replied , ` Let him build your Majesty in one day a more beautiful palace than this , and if he fails in the attempt let him be hung . '
7 The King was pleased with this proposal , and commanded Ferko to set to work on the following day .
8 The two brothers were delighted , for they thought they had now got rid of Ferko for ever .
9 The poor youth himself was heart-broken , and cursed the hour he had crossed the boundary of the King 's domain .
10 As he was wandering disconsolately about the meadows round the palace , wondering how he could escape being put to death , a little bee flew past , and settling on his shoulder whispered in his ear , ` What is troubling you , my kind benefactor ?
11 Can I be of any help to you ?
12 I am the bee whose wing you healed , and would like to show my gratitude in some way . '
13 Ferko recognised the queen bee , and said , ` Alas !
14 how could you help me ?
15 for I have been set to do a task which no one in the whole world could do , let him be ever such a genius !
16 To-morrow I must build a palace more beautiful than the King 's , and it must be finished before evening . '
17 ` Is that all ? '
18 answered the bee , ` then you may comfort yourself ; for before the sun goes down to-morrow night a palace shall be built unlike any that King has dwelt in before .
19 Just stay here till I come again and tell you that it is finished . '
20 Having said this she flew merrily away , and Ferko , reassured by her words , lay down on the grass and slept peacefully till the next morning .
21 Early on the following day the whole town was on its feet , and everyone wondered how and where the stranger would build the wonderful XXXXX .	palace		admiration|domain|help|jealousy|matter|one|palace|proposal|something|task

1 One day , when he was away hunting , the woman fell ill , and in a few days she died .
2 Her husband grieved bitterly , and buried her in the house where she had passed her life ; but as the time went on he felt so lonely without her that he made a wooden doll about her height and size for company , and dressed it in her clothes .
3 He seated it in front of the fire , and tried to think he had his wife back again .
4 The next day he went out to hunt , and when he came home the first thing he did was to go up to the doll and brush off some of the ashes from the fire which had fallen on its face .
5 But he was very busy now , for he had to cook and mend , besides getting food , for there was no one to help him .
6 And so a whole year passed away .
7 At the end of that time he came back from hunting one night and found some wood by the door and a fire within .
8 The next night there was not only wood and fire , but a piece of meat in the kettle , nearly ready for eating .
9 He searched all about to see who could have done this , but could find no one .
10 The next time he went to hunt he took care not to go far , and came in quite early .
11 And while he was still a long way off he saw a woman going into the house with wood on her shoulders .
12 So he made haste , and opened the door quickly , and instead of the wooden doll , his wife sat in front of the fire .
13 Then she spoke to him and said , ` The Great Spirit felt sorry for you , because you would not be comforted , so he let me come back to you , but you must not stretch out your hand to touch me till we have seen the rest of our people .
14 If you do , I shall die . '
15 So the man listened to her words , and the woman dwelt there , and brought the wood and kindled the fire , till one day her husband said to her , ` It is now two years since you died .
16 Let us now go back to our tribe .
17 Then you will be well , and I can touch you . '
18 And with that he prepared food for the journey , a string of deer 's flesh for her to carry , and one for himself ; and so they started .
19 Now the camp of the tribe was distant six days ' journey , and when they were yet one day 's journey off it began to snow , and they felt weary and longed for rest .
20 Therefore they made a fire , cooked some food , and spread out their skins to sleep .
21 Then the heart of the man was greatly stirred , and he stretched out his arms to his XXXXX , but she waved her hands and said , ` We have seen no one yet ; it is too soon . '	wife		Spirit|ashes|brush|haste|house|hunting|tribe|wife|woman|words

1 I do n't say Isaac Cropper steals those plums with his own hands .
2 But he knows who does -- and the plums go into Mehitable Cropper 's preserving kettle ; there 's nothing surer . ''
3 `` You see , Miss Maxwell , it 's this way , '' explained Mr. Baxter , turning to Esther .
4 `` Mrs. Charley Cropper 's husband was Isaac 's brother .
5 They never got on well together , and when Charley died there was a tremendous fuss about the property .
6 Isaac acted mean and scandalous clear through , and public opinion has been down on him ever since .
7 But Mrs. Charley is a pretty smart woman , and he did n't get the better of her in everything .
8 There was a strip of disputed land between the two farms , and she secured it .
9 There 's a big plum tree growing on it close to the line fence .
10 It 's the finest one in Maitland .
11 But Mrs. Charley never gets a plum from it . ''
12 `` But what becomes of them ? ''
13 asked Esther .
14 `` They disappear , '' said Mr. Baxter , with a significant nod .
15 `` When the plums are anything like ripe Mrs. Charley discovers some day that there is n't one left on the tree .
16 She has never been able to get a scrap of proof as to who took them , or she 'd make it hot for them .
17 But nobody in Maitland has any doubt in his own mind that Isaac Cropper knows where those plums go . ''
18 `` I do n't think Mr. Cropper would steal , '' protested Esther .
19 `` Well , he does n't consider it stealing , you know .
20 He claims the land and says the plums are his .
21 I do n't doubt that he is quite clear in his own XXXXX that they are .	mind		Miss|Mrs.|everything|farms|fuss|husband|kettle|mind|plum|woman

1 I will summon all the eagles of the air together , and order them to catch the mare and bring her to you . '
2 And with these words the King of the Eagles flew away .
3 Towards evening the Prince heard a mighty rushing sound in the air , and when he looked up he saw thousands of eagles driving the mare before them .
4 They sank at his feet on to the ground and gave the mare over to him .
5 Then the Prince rode home to the old Mother Dragon , who was full of wonder when she saw him , and said , ` You have succeeded to-day in looking after my mare , and as a reward you shall come to my ball to-night . '
6 She gave him at the same time a cloak made of copper , and led him to a big room where several young he-dragons and she-dragons were dancing together .
7 Here , too , was the Flower Queen 's beautiful daughter .
8 Her dress was woven out of the most lovely flowers in the world , and her complexion was like lilies and roses .
9 As the Prince was dancing with her he managed to whisper in her ear , ' I have come to set you free ! '
10 Then the beautiful girl said to him , ` If you succeed in bringing the mare back safely the third day , ask the Mother Dragon to give you a foal of the mare as a reward . '
11 The ball came to an end at midnight , and early next morning the Prince again led the Mother Dragon 's mare out into the meadow .
12 But again she vanished before his eyes .
13 Then he took out his little bell and rang it twice .
14 In a moment the King of the Foxes stood before him and said : ' I know already what you want , and will summon all the foxes of the world together to find the mare who has hidden herself in a hill . '
15 With these words the King of the Foxes disappeared , and in the evening many thousand foxes brought the mare to the Prince .
16 Then he rode home to the Mother-Dragon , from whom he received this time a cloak made of silver , and again she led him to the ball-room .
17 The Flower Queen 's daughter was delighted to see him safe and sound , and when they were dancing together she whispered in his ear : ` If you succeed again to-morrow , wait for me with the foal in the meadow .
18 After the ball we will fly away together . '
19 On the third day the Prince led the mare to the meadow again ; but once more she vanished before his eyes .
20 Then the Prince took out his little bell and rang it three times .
21 In a XXXXX the King of the Fishes appeared , and said to him : ' I know quite well what you want me to do , and I will summon all the fishes of the sea together , and tell them to bring you back the mare , who is hiding herself in a river . '	moment		ball|eagles|ear|eyes|foal|lilies|meadow|moment|roses|words

1 Then the beautiful maiden fell on her knees before him , saying , ` Oh , my dearest , forgive me the ill I have done you !
2 My mother compelled me to do it ; it was against my will , for I love you dearly .
3 Your wishing-cloak is hanging in a cupboard , and as for the bird-heart I will make a drink and give it back to you . '
4 But he changed his mind , and said , ` Keep it ; it makes no difference , for I will take you to be my own dear true wife . '
5 And the wedding was celebrated , and they lived happy together till death .
6 THE LITTLE GREEN FROG -LRB- 8 -RRB- -LRB- 8 -RRB- Cabinet des Fees .
7 In a part of the world whose name I forget lived once upon a time two kings , called Peridor and Diamantino .
8 They were cousins as well as neighbours , and both were under the protection of the fairies ; though it is only fair to say that the fairies did not love them half so well as their wives did .
9 Now it often happens that as princes can generally manage to get their own way it is harder for them to be good than it is for common people .
10 So it was with Peridor and Diamantino ; but of the two , the fairies declared that Diamantino was much the worst ; indeed , he behaved so badly to his wife Aglantino , that the fairies would not allow him to live any longer ; and he died , leaving behind him a little daughter .
11 As she was an only child , of course this little girl was the heiress of the kingdom , but , being still only a baby , her mother , the widow of Diamantino , was proclaimed regent .
12 The Queen-dowager was wise and good , and tried her best to make her people happy .
13 The only thing she had to vex her was the absence of her daughter ; for the fairies , for reasons of their own , determined to bring up the little Princess Serpentine among themselves .
14 As to the other King , he was really fond of his wife , Queen Constance , but he often grieved her by his thoughtless ways , and in order to punish him for his carelessness , the fairies caused her to die quite suddenly .
15 When she was gone the King felt how much he had loved her , and his grief was so great -LRB- though he never neglected his duties -RRB- that his subjects called him Peridor the Sorrowful .
16 It seems hardly possible that any man should live like Peridor for fifteen years plunged in such depth of grief , and most likely he would have died too if it had not been for the fairies .
17 The one comfort the poor King had was his son , Prince Saphir , who was only three years old at the time of his mother 's death , and great care was given to his education .
18 By the time he was fifteen Saphir had learnt everything that a prince should know , and he was , besides , charming and agreeable .
19 It was about this time that the fairies suddenly took fright lest his love for his father should interfere with the plans they had made for the young prince .
20 So , to prevent this , they placed in a pretty little room of which Saphir was very fond a little mirror in a black frame , such as were often brought from Venice .
21 The Prince did not notice for some days that there was anything new in the XXXXX , but at last he perceived it , and went up to look at it more closely .	room		difference|drink|love|maiden|name|neighbours|protection|room|subjects|time

1 said the Darning-needle . '
2 I shall never get through it .
3 I am breaking !
4 I am breaking ! '
5 And in fact she did break .
6 ` Did n't I tell you so ! '
7 said the Darning-needle . '
8 I am too fine ! '
9 ` Now she is good for nothing ! '
10 said the Fingers ; but they had to hold her tight while the cook dropped some sealing-wax on the needle and stuck it in the front of her dress .
11 ` Now I am a breast-pin ! '
12 said the Darning-needle . '
13 I always knew I should be promoted .
14 When one is something , one will become something ! '
15 And she laughed to herself ; you can never see when a Darning-needle is laughing .
16 Then she sat up as proudly as if she were in a State coach , and looked all round her .
17 ` May I be allowed to ask if you are gold ? '
18 she said to her neighbour , the Pin .
19 ` You have a very nice appearance , and a peculiar head ; but it is too small !
20 You must take pains to make it grow , for it is not everyone who has a head of sealing-wax . '
21 And so saying the Darning-needle raised herself up so proudly that she fell out of the XXXXX , right into the sink which the cook was rinsing out .	dress		appearance|break|coach|dress|fact|gold|head|needle|nothing|pains

1 In a part of the world whose name I forget lived once upon a time two kings , called Peridor and Diamantino .
2 They were cousins as well as neighbours , and both were under the protection of the fairies ; though it is only fair to say that the fairies did not love them half so well as their wives did .
3 Now it often happens that as princes can generally manage to get their own way it is harder for them to be good than it is for common people .
4 So it was with Peridor and Diamantino ; but of the two , the fairies declared that Diamantino was much the worst ; indeed , he behaved so badly to his wife Aglantino , that the fairies would not allow him to live any longer ; and he died , leaving behind him a little daughter .
5 As she was an only child , of course this little girl was the heiress of the kingdom , but , being still only a baby , her mother , the widow of Diamantino , was proclaimed regent .
6 The Queen-dowager was wise and good , and tried her best to make her people happy .
7 The only thing she had to vex her was the absence of her daughter ; for the fairies , for reasons of their own , determined to bring up the little Princess Serpentine among themselves .
8 As to the other King , he was really fond of his wife , Queen Constance , but he often grieved her by his thoughtless ways , and in order to punish him for his carelessness , the fairies caused her to die quite suddenly .
9 When she was gone the King felt how much he had loved her , and his grief was so great -LRB- though he never neglected his duties -RRB- that his subjects called him Peridor the Sorrowful .
10 It seems hardly possible that any man should live like Peridor for fifteen years plunged in such depth of grief , and most likely he would have died too if it had not been for the fairies .
11 The one comfort the poor King had was his son , Prince Saphir , who was only three years old at the time of his mother 's death , and great care was given to his education .
12 By the time he was fifteen Saphir had learnt everything that a prince should know , and he was , besides , charming and agreeable .
13 It was about this time that the fairies suddenly took fright lest his love for his father should interfere with the plans they had made for the young prince .
14 So , to prevent this , they placed in a pretty little room of which Saphir was very fond a little mirror in a black frame , such as were often brought from Venice .
15 The Prince did not notice for some days that there was anything new in the room , but at last he perceived it , and went up to look at it more closely .
16 What was his surprise to see reflected in the mirror , not his own face , but that of a young girl as lovely as the morning !
17 And , better still , every movement of the girl , just growing out of childhood , was also reflected in the wonderful glass .
18 As might have been expected , the young Prince lost his heart completely to the beautiful image , and it was impossible to get him out of the room , so busy was he in watching the lovely unknown .
19 Certainly it was very delightful to be able to see her whom he loved at any moment he chose , but his spirits sometimes sank when he wondered what was to be the end of this adventure .
20 The magic mirror had been for about a year in the Prince 's possession , when one day a new subject of disquiet seized upon him .
21 As usual , he was engaged in looking at the XXXXX , when suddenly he thought he saw a second mirror reflected in the first , exactly like his own , and with the same power .	girl		child|childhood|cousins|frame|girl|grief|mother|princes|subjects|unknown

1 She had hardly left him when the two black wolves appeared : but the Sun-Hero beat them off with his sword , and they retired , only , however , to reappear in a very short time .
2 The Sun-Hero chased them away once more , but he had hardly sat down to rest when the two black wolves were on the scene again .
3 This went on for seven days and nights , when the white horse , who had never done such a thing before , turned to the Sun-Hero and said in a human voice : ` Listen to what I am going to say .
4 A Fairy gave me to your mother in order that I might be of service to you ; so let me tell you , that if you go to sleep and let the wolves harm the tree , the Sun will surely kill you .
5 The Fairy , foreseeing this , put everyone in the world under a spell , which prevents their obeying the Sun 's command to take your life .
6 But all the same , she has forgotten one person , who will certainly kill you if you fall asleep and let the wolves damage the tree .
7 So watch and keep the wolves away . '
8 Then the Sun-Hero strove with all his might and kept the black wolves at bay , and conquered his desire to sleep ; but on the eighth night his strength failed him , and he fell fast asleep .
9 When he awoke a woman in black stood beside him , who said : ` You have fulfilled your task very badly , for you have let the two black wolves damage the Tree of the Sun .
10 I am the mother of the Sun , and I command you to ride away from here at once , and I pronounce sentence of death upon you , for you proudly let yourself be called the Sun-Hero without having done anything to deserve the name . '
11 The youth mounted his horse sadly , and rode home .
12 The people all thronged round him on his return , anxious to hear his adventures , but he told them nothing , and only to his mother did he confide what had befallen him .
13 But the old Queen laughed , and said to her son : ` Do n't worry , my child ; you see , the Fairy has protected you so far , and the Sun has found no one to kill you .
14 So cheer up and be happy . '
15 After a time the Prince forgot all about his adventure , and married a beautiful Princess , with whom he lived very happily for some time .
16 But one day when he was out hunting he felt very thirsty , and coming to a stream he stooped down to drink from it , and this caused his death , for a crab came swimming up , and with its claws tore out his tongue .
17 He was carried home in a dying condition , and as he lay on his death-bed the black woman appeared and said : ` So the Sun has , after all , found someone , who was not under the Fairy 's spell , who has caused your death .
18 And a similar fate will overtake everyone under the Sun who wrongfully assumes a title to which he has no right . '
19 THE WITCH -LRB- 28 -RRB- -LRB- 28 -RRB- From the Russian .
20 Once upon a time there was a peasant whose wife died , leaving him with two children -- twins -- a boy and a girl .
21 For some years the poor man lived on alone with the children , caring for them as best he could ; but everything in the house seemed to go wrong without a woman to look after it , and at last he made up his mind to marry again , feeling that a wife would bring peace and order to his household and take care of his motherless XXXXX .	children		Fairy|children|nothing|people|scene|someone|son|spell|time|woman

1 He has driven game for us .
2 He has broken no word of the Law of the Jungle . ''
3 `` Also , I paid for him with a bull when he was accepted .
4 The worth of a bull is little , but Bagheera 's honor is something that he will perhaps fight for , '' said Bagheera in his gentlest voice .
5 `` A bull paid ten years ago ! ''
6 the Pack snarled .
7 `` What do we care for bones ten years old ? ''
8 `` Or for a pledge ? ''
9 said Bagheera , his white teeth bared under his lip .
10 `` Well are ye called the Free People ! ''
11 `` No man 's cub can run with the people of the jungle , '' howled Shere Khan .
12 `` Give him to me ! ''
13 `` He is our brother in all but blood , '' Akela went on , `` and ye would kill him here !
14 In truth , I have lived too long .
15 Some of ye are eaters of cattle , and of others I have heard that , under Shere Khan 's teaching , ye go by dark night and snatch children from the villager 's doorstep .
16 Therefore I know ye to be cowards , and it is to cowards I speak .
17 It is certain that I must die , and my life is of no worth , or I would offer that in the man-cub 's place .
18 But for the sake of the Honor of the Pack , -- a little matter that by being without a leader ye have forgotten , -- I promise that if ye let the man-cub go to his own place , I will not , when my time comes to die , bare one tooth against ye .
19 I will die without fighting .
20 That will at least save the Pack three lives .
21 More I can not do ; but if ye will , I can save ye the shame that comes of killing a brother against whom there is no fault -- a brother spoken for and bought into the Pack according to the XXXXX of the Jungle . ''	Law		Law|bones|bull|leader|lives|man|tooth|truth|word|years

1 I suppose he 's so tame because we 've been kind to him . ''
2 `` All mongooses are like that , '' said her husband .
3 `` If Teddy does n't pick him up by the tail , or try to put him in a cage , he 'll run in and out of the house all day long .
4 Let 's give him something to eat . ''
5 They gave him a little piece of raw meat .
6 Rikki-tikki liked it immensely , and when it was finished he went out into the veranda and sat in the sunshine and fluffed up his fur to make it dry to the roots .
7 Then he felt better .
8 `` There are more things to find out about in this house , '' he said to himself , `` than all my family could find out in all their lives .
9 I shall certainly stay and find out . ''
10 He spent all that day roaming over the house .
11 He nearly drowned himself in the bath-tubs , put his nose into the ink on a writing table , and burned it on the end of the big man 's cigar , for he climbed up in the big man 's lap to see how writing was done .
12 At nightfall he ran into Teddy 's nursery to watch how kerosene lamps were lighted , and when Teddy went to bed Rikki-tikki climbed up too .
13 But he was a restless companion , because he had to get up and attend to every noise all through the night , and find out what made it .
14 Teddy 's mother and father came in , the last thing , to look at their boy , and Rikki-tikki was awake on the pillow .
15 `` I do n't like that , '' said Teddy 's mother .
16 `` He may bite the child . ''
17 `` He 'll do no such thing , '' said the father .
18 `` Teddy 's safer with that little beast than if he had a bloodhound to watch him .
19 If a snake came into the nursery now -- '' But Teddy 's mother would n't think of anything so awful .
20 Early in the morning Rikki-tikki came to early breakfast in the veranda riding on Teddy 's shoulder , and they gave him banana and some boiled egg .
21 He sat on all their laps one after the other , because every well-brought-up mongoose always hopes to be a XXXXX mongoose some day and have rooms to run about in ; and Rikki-tikki 's mother -LRB- she used to live in the general 's house at Segowlee -RRB- had carefully told Rikki what to do if ever he came across white men .	house		anything|boy|child|house|ink|nursery|piece|pillow|snake|tail

1 He did not awake till it was bright daylight , and all the fruit on the trees had vanished .
2 The following year Warza , the second brother , tried his luck , but with the same result .
3 Then it came to the turn of the third and youngest son .
4 Iwanich was not the least discouraged by the failure of his elder brothers , though they were both much older and stronger than he was , and when night came climbed up the tree as they had done , The moon had risen , and with her soft light lit up the whole neighbourhood , so that the observant Prince could distinguish the smallest object distinctly .
5 At midnight a gentle west wind shook the tree , and at the same moment a snow-white swan-like bird sank down gently on his breast .
6 The Prince hastily seized the bird 's wings in his hands , when , lo !
7 to his astonishment he found he was holding in his arms not a bird but the most beautiful girl he had ever seen .
8 ` You need not fear Militza , ' said the beautiful girl , looking at the Prince with friendly eyes .
9 ` An evil magician has not robbed you of your fruit , but he stole the seed from my mother , and thereby caused her death .
10 When she was dying she bade me take the fruit , which you have no right to possess , from the trees every year as soon as it was ripe .
11 This I would have done to-night too , if you had not seized me with such force , and so broken the spell I was under . '
12 Iwanich , who had been prepared to meet a terrible magician and not a lovely girl , fell desperately in love with her .
13 They spent the rest of the night in pleasant conversation , and when Militza wished to go away he begged her not to leave him . '
14 I would gladly stay with you longer , ' said Militza , ` but a wicked witch once cut off a lock of my hair when I was asleep , which has put me in her power , and if morning were still to find me here she would do me some harm , and you , too , perhaps . '
15 Having said these words , she drew a sparkling diamond ring from her finger , which she handed to the Prince , saying : ` Keep this ring in memory of Militza , and think of her sometimes if you never see her again .
16 But if your love is really true , come and find me in my own kingdom .
17 I may not show you the way there , but this ring will guide you .
18 ` If you have love and courage enough to undertake this journey , whenever you come to a cross-road always look at this diamond before you settle which way you are going to take .
19 If it sparkles as brightly as ever go straight on , but if its lustre is dimmed choose another path . '
20 Then Militza bent over the Prince and kissed him on his forehead , and before he had time to say a word she vanished through the branches of the tree in a little white cloud .
21 Morning broke , and the Prince , still full of the wonderful apparition , left his perch and returned to the palace like one in a dream , without even knowing if the XXXXX had been taken or not ; for his whole mind was absorbed by thoughts of Militza and how he was to find her .	fruit		astonishment|bird|brother|conversation|eyes|fruit|love|ring|turn|way

1 Best of all , Jimmy had found three beetles that very morning , and he knew that there were more if he could find them .
2 So why should n't he feel good ?
3 Jimmy had laughed at Peter Rabbit for being so anxious for Summer to arrive , but he was just as glad as Peter that she had come , although he would n't have said so for the world .
4 His sharp little eyes twinkled as he ambled along , and there was n't much that they missed .
5 As he walked he talked , quite to himself of course , because there was nobody near to hear , and this is what he was saying : `` Beetle , beetle , smooth and smug , You are nothing but a bug .
6 Bugs were made for Skunks to eat , So come out from your retreat .
7 `` Hello !
8 There 's a nice big piece of bark over there that looks as if it ought to have a dozen fat beetles under it .
9 It 's great fun to pull over pieces of bark and see fat beetles run all ways at once .
10 I 'll just have to see what is under that piece . ''
11 Jimmy tiptoed softly over to the big piece of bark , and then as he made ready to turn it over , he began again that foolish little verse .
12 `` Beetle , beetle , smooth and smug , You are nothing but a bug . ''
13 As he said the last word , he suddenly pulled the piece of bark over .
14 `` Who 's a bug ? ''
15 asked a funny voice , and it sounded rather cross .
16 Jimmy Skunk nearly tumbled over backward in surprise , and for a minute he could n't find his tongue .
17 There , instead of the fat beetles he had been so sure of , sat Old Mr. Toad , and he did n't look at all pleased .
18 `` Who 's a bug ? ''
19 he repeated .
20 Instead of answering , Jimmy Skunk began to laugh .
21 `` Who 's a XXXXX ? ''	bug		Best|answering|bug|course|nobody|piece|surprise|tongue|voice|word

1 Then the runner got a pitcher , and the King 's daughter another , and they began to run at the same time ; but in a moment , when the King 's daughter was only just a little way off , no spectator could see the runner , and it seemed as if the wind had whistled past .
2 In a short time he reached the stream , filled his pitcher with water , and turned round again .
3 But , half way home , a great drowsiness came over him ; he put down his pitcher , lay down , and fell asleep .
4 He had , however , put a horse 's skull which was lying on the ground , for his pillow , so that he should not be too comfortable and might soon wake up .
5 In the meantime the King 's daughter , who could also run well , as well as an ordinary man could , reached the stream , and hastened back with her pitcher full of water .
6 When she saw the runner lying there asleep , she was delighted , and said , ` My enemy is given into my hands ! '
7 She emptied his pitcher and ran on .
8 Everything now would have been lost , if by good luck the hunter had not been standing on the castle tower and had seen everything with his sharp eyes .
9 ` Ah , ' said he , ` the King 's daughter shall not overreach us ; ' and , loading his gun , he shot so cleverly , that he shot away the horse 's skull from under the runner 's head , without its hurting him .
10 Then the runner awoke , jumped up , and saw that his pitcher was empty and the King 's daughter far ahead .
11 But he did not lose courage , and ran back to the stream with his pitcher , filled it once more with water , and was home ten minutes before the King 's daughter arrived .
12 ` Look , ' said he , ' I have only just exercised my legs ; that was nothing of a run . '
13 But the King was angry , and his daughter even more so , that she should be carried away by a common , discharged soldier .
14 They consulted together how they could destroy both him and his companions .
15 ` Then , ' said the King to her , ' I have found a way .
16 Do n't be frightened ; they shall not come home again . '
17 He said to them , ` You must now make merry together , and eat and drink , ' and he led them into a room which had a floor of iron ; the doors were also of iron , and the windows were barred with iron .
18 In the room was a table spread with delicious food .
19 The King said to them , ` Go in and enjoy yourselves , ' and as soon as they were inside he had the doors shut and bolted .
20 Then he made the cook come , and ordered him to keep up a large fire under the room until the iron was red-hot .
21 The XXXXX did so , and the Six sitting round the table felt it grow very warm , and they thought this was because of their good fare ; but when the heat became still greater and they wanted to go out , but found the doors and windows fastened , then they knew that the King meant them harm and was trying to suffocate them .	cook		Everything|cook|hands|iron|luck|meantime|moment|pillow|run|runner

1 When he reached the tree he put out his hand to pick a golden apple ; but all of a sudden the tree grew higher , so that he could not reach its fruit .
2 Then he heard some one behind him laughing .
3 Turning round , he saw the girl in red walking towards him , who addressed him in these words : ` Do you really imagine , brave son of the earth , that you can pluck an apple so easily from the Tree of the Sun ?
4 Before you can do that , you have a difficult task before you .
5 You must guard the tree for nine days and nine nights from the ravages of two wild black wolves , who will try to harm it .
6 Do you think you can undertake this ? '
7 ` Yes , ' answered the Sun-Hero , ' I will guard the Tree of the Sun nine days and nine nights . '
8 Then the girl continued : ` Remember , though , if you do not succeed the Sun will kill you .
9 Now begin your watch . '
10 With these words the Red Girl went back into the golden castle .
11 She had hardly left him when the two black wolves appeared : but the Sun-Hero beat them off with his sword , and they retired , only , however , to reappear in a very short time .
12 The Sun-Hero chased them away once more , but he had hardly sat down to rest when the two black wolves were on the scene again .
13 This went on for seven days and nights , when the white horse , who had never done such a thing before , turned to the Sun-Hero and said in a human voice : ` Listen to what I am going to say .
14 A Fairy gave me to your mother in order that I might be of service to you ; so let me tell you , that if you go to sleep and let the wolves harm the tree , the Sun will surely kill you .
15 The Fairy , foreseeing this , put everyone in the world under a spell , which prevents their obeying the Sun 's command to take your life .
16 But all the same , she has forgotten one person , who will certainly kill you if you fall asleep and let the wolves damage the tree .
17 So watch and keep the wolves away . '
18 Then the Sun-Hero strove with all his might and kept the black wolves at bay , and conquered his desire to sleep ; but on the eighth night his strength failed him , and he fell fast asleep .
19 When he awoke a woman in black stood beside him , who said : ` You have fulfilled your task very badly , for you have let the two black wolves damage the Tree of the Sun .
20 I am the mother of the Sun , and I command you to ride away from here at once , and I pronounce sentence of death upon you , for you proudly let yourself be called the Sun-Hero without having done anything to deserve the name . '
21 The youth mounted his XXXXX sadly , and rode home .	horse		Fairy|Girl|everyone|hand|horse|ravages|scene|spell|strove|time

1 She received the King as if she were expecting him , and he saw that she was certainly very beautiful ; but she did not please him , and he could not look at her without a secret feeling of horror .
2 As soon as he had lifted the maiden on to his horse the old woman showed him the way , and the King reached his palace , where the wedding was celebrated .
3 The King had already been married once , and had by his first wife seven children , six boys and one girl , whom he loved more than anything in the world .
4 And now , because he was afraid that their stepmother might not treat them well and might do them harm , he put them in a lonely castle that stood in the middle of a wood .
5 It lay so hidden , and the way to it was so hard to find , that he himself could not have found it out had not a wise-woman given him a reel of thread which possessed a marvellous property : when he threw it before him it unwound itself and showed him the way .
6 But the King went so often to his dear children that the Queen was offended at his absence .
7 She grew curious , and wanted to know what he had to do quite alone in the wood .
8 She gave his servants a great deal of money , and they betrayed the secret to her , and also told her of the reel which alone could point out the way .
9 She had no rest now till she had found out where the King guarded the reel , and then she made some little white shirts , and , as she had learnt from her witch-mother , sewed an enchantment in each of them .
10 And when the King had ridden off she took the little shirts and went into the wood , and the reel showed her the way .
11 The children , who saw someone coming in the distance , thought it was their dear father coming to them , and sprang to meet him very joyfully .
12 Then she threw over each one a little shirt , which when it had touched their bodies changed them into swans , and they flew away over the forest .
13 The Queen went home quite satisfied , and thought she had got rid of her step-children ; but the girl had not run to meet her with her brothers , and she knew nothing of her .
14 The next day the King came to visit his children , but he found no one but the girl .
15 ` Where are your brothers ? '
16 asked the King .
17 ` Alas !
18 dear father , ' she answered , ` they have gone away and left me all alone . '
19 And she told him that looking out of her little window she had seen her brothers flying over the wood in the shape of swans , and she showed him the feathers which they had let fall in the yard , and which she had collected .
20 The King mourned , but he did not think that the Queen had done the wicked deed , and as he was afraid the maiden would also be taken from him , he wanted to take her with him .
21 But she was afraid of the stepmother , and begged the King to let her stay just one night more in the castle in the XXXXX .	wood		castle|deed|distance|forest|middle|one|shirt|shirts|someone|wood

1 It was a big red kite with a patch on each side and names written on it .
2 They carried it home to their mother .
3 Dick has since told us that she turned as pale as the dead when she saw our names on it .
4 You see , Philippa was her mother 's name and Claude was her father 's .
5 And when she read the letter that was pasted over the hole in the kite she knew who we must be , for it was the very letter she had written to her brother so long ago .
6 So she sat right down and wrote again , and this was the letter Jake Wiggins brought to the Big Half Moon .
7 It was a beautiful letter .
8 I loved Aunt Esther before I ever saw her , just from that letter .
9 Next day Father got Jake to take his place for a few days , and he left Claude and me over on the mainland while he went to see Aunt Esther .
10 When he came back he brought Aunt Esther and Dick and Mimi with him , and they have been here ever since .
11 You do n't know how splendid it is !
12 Aunt Esther is such a dear , and Dick and Mimi are too jolly for words .
13 They love the Big Half Moon as well as Claude and I do , and Dick makes a perfectly elegant shipwrecked mariner .
14 But the best of it all is that we have relations now !
15 The Bride Roses Miss Corona awoke that June morning with a sigh , the cause of which she was at first too sleepy to understand .
16 Then it all came over her with a little sickening rush ; she had fallen asleep with tear-wet lashes the night before on account of it .
17 This was Juliet Gordon 's wedding day , and she , Miss Corona , could not go to the wedding and was not even invited , all because of the Quarrel , a generation old , and so chronic and bitter and terrible that it always presented itself to Miss Corona 's mental vision as spelled with a capital .
18 Well might Miss Corona hate it .
19 It had shut her up into a lonely life for long years .
20 Juliet Gordon and Juliet 's father , Meredith Gordon , were the only relations Miss Corona had in the world , and the old family feud divided them by a gulf which now seemed impassable .
21 XXXXX Corona turned over on her pillows , lifted one corner of the white window-blind and peeped out .	Miss		Aunt|Miss|account|father|letter|name|names|relations|wedding|words

1 Iwanich , who felt sorry for the poor creature , seized it in his arms and flung it into the stream .
2 But no sooner did the fish find itself in the water again , than , to the Prince 's amazement , it swam up to the bank and said : ` My kind benefactor , how can I reward you for your goodness ? ' '
3 I desire nothing , ' answered the Prince . '
4 I am quite content to have been able to be of some service to you . '
5 ` You must do me the favour , ' replied the fish , ` to take a scale from my body , and keep it carefully .
6 If you should ever need my help , throw it into the river , and I will come to your aid at once . '
7 Iwanich bowed , loosened a scale from the body of the grateful beast , put it carefully away , and returned home .
8 A short time after this , when he was going early one morning to the usual grazing place with his horses , he noticed a flock of birds assembled together making a great noise and flying wildly backwards and forwards .
9 Full of curiosity , Iwanich hurried up to the spot , and saw that a large number of ravens had attacked an eagle , and although the eagle was big and powerful and was making a brave fight , it was overpowered at last by numbers , and had to give in .
10 But the Prince , who was sorry for the poor bird , seized the branch of a tree and hit out at the ravens with it ; terrified at this unexpected onslaught they flew away , leaving many of their number dead or wounded on the battlefield .
11 As soon as the eagle saw itself free from its tormentors it plucked a feather from its wing , and , handing it to the Prince , said : ` Here , my kind benefactor , take this feather as a proof of my gratitude ; should you ever be in need of my help blow this feather into the air , and I will help you as much as is in my power . '
12 Iwanich thanked the bird , and placing the feather beside the scale he drove the horses home .
13 Another day he had wandered farther than usual , and came close to a farmyard ; the place pleased the Prince , and as there was plenty of good grass for the horses he determined to spend the day there .
14 Just as he was sitting down under a tree he heard a cry close to him , and saw a fox which had been caught in a trap placed there by the farmer .
15 In vain did the poor beast try to free itself ; then the good-natured Prince came once more to the rescue , and let the fox out of the trap .
16 The fox thanked him heartily , tore two hairs out of his bushy tail , and said : ` Should you ever stand in need of my help throw these two hairs into the fire , and in a moment I shall be at your side ready to obey you . '
17 Iwanich put the fox 's hairs with the scale and the feather , and as it was getting dark he hastened home with his horses .
18 In the meantime his service was drawing near to an end , and in three more days the year was up , and he would be able to get his reward and leave the witch .
19 On the first evening of these last three days , when he came home and was eating his supper , he noticed the old woman stealing into the stables .
20 The Prince followed her secretly to see what she was going to do .
21 He crouched down in the doorway and heard the wicked witch telling the horses to wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep , and then to go and hide themselves in the river , and to stay there till she told them to return ; and if they did n't do as she told them the old XXXXX threatened to beat them till they bled .	woman		bird|curiosity|fish|meantime|need|plenty|scale|supper|tree|woman

1 ` Why are you standing there looking so sad ? '
2 asked the Hunter .
3 ` Alas , my love , ' she replied , ` over there lies the granite mountain where the costly precious stones grow .
4 I have a great longing to go there , so that when I think of it I am very sad .
5 For who can fetch them ?
6 Only the birds who fly ; a man , never . '
7 ` If you have no other trouble , ' said the Hunter , ` that one I can easily remove from your heart . '
8 So he wrapped her round in his cloak and wished themselves to the granite mountain , and in an instant there they were , sitting on it !
9 The precious stones sparkled so brightly on all sides that it was a pleasure to see them , and they collected the most beautiful and costly together .
10 But now the old witch had through her caused the Hunter 's eyes to become heavy .
11 He said to the maiden , ` We will sit down for a little while and rest ; I am so tired that I can hardly stand on my feet . '
12 So they sat down , and he laid his head on her lap and fell asleep .
13 As soon as he was sound asleep she unfastened the cloak from his shoulders , threw it on her own , left the granite and stones , and wished herself home again .
14 But when the Hunter had finished his sleep and awoke , he found that his love had betrayed him and left him alone on the wild mountain .
15 ` Oh , ' said he , ` why is faithlessness so great in the world ? '
16 and he sat down in sorrow and trouble , not knowing what to do .
17 But the mountain belonged to fierce and huge giants , who lived on it and traded there , and he had not sat long before he saw three of them striding towards him .
18 So he lay down as if he had fallen into a deep sleep .
19 The giants came up , and the first pushed him with his foot , and said , ` What sort of an earthworm is that ? '
20 The second said , ` Crush him dead . '
21 But the third said contemptuously , ` It is not worth the XXXXX !	trouble		birds|feet|giants|home|rest|round|sleep|sort|trouble|witch

1 Nag was thinking to himself , and watching the least little movement in the grass behind Rikki-tikki .
2 He knew that mongooses in the garden meant death sooner or later for him and his family , but he wanted to get Rikki-tikki off his guard .
3 So he dropped his head a little , and put it on one side .
4 `` Let us talk , '' he said .
5 `` You eat eggs .
6 Why should not I eat birds ? ''
7 `` Behind you !
8 Look behind you ! ''
9 sang Darzee .
10 Rikki-tikki knew better than to waste time in staring .
11 He jumped up in the air as high as he could go , and just under him whizzed by the head of Nagaina , Nag 's wicked wife .
12 She had crept up behind him as he was talking , to make an end of him .
13 He heard her savage hiss as the stroke missed .
14 He came down almost across her back , and if he had been an old mongoose he would have known that then was the time to break her back with one bite ; but he was afraid of the terrible lashing return stroke of the cobra .
15 He bit , indeed , but did not bite long enough , and he jumped clear of the whisking tail , leaving Nagaina torn and angry .
16 `` Wicked , wicked Darzee ! ''
17 said Nag , lashing up as high as he could reach toward the nest in the thorn-bush .
18 But Darzee had built it out of reach of snakes , and it only swayed to and fro .
19 Rikki-tikki felt his eyes growing red and hot -LRB- when a mongoose 's eyes grow red , he is angry -RRB- , and he sat back on his tail and hind legs like a little kangaroo , and looked all round him , and chattered with rage .
20 But Nag and Nagaina had disappeared into the grass .
21 When a snake misses its XXXXX , it never says anything or gives any sign of what it means to do next .	stroke		air|back|bite|eggs|end|grass|legs|stroke|tail|time

1 Find a home for yourself in one of the lovely flowers that grow down there ; now I will set you down , and you can do whatever you like . '
2 ` That will be splendid ! '
3 said she , clapping her little hands .
4 There lay a great white marble column which had fallen to the ground and broken into three pieces , but between these grew the most beautiful white flowers .
5 The swallow flew down with Thumbelina , and set her upon one of the broad leaves .
6 But there , to her astonishment , she found a tiny little man sitting in the middle of the flower , as white and transparent as if he were made of glass ; he had the prettiest golden crown on his head , and the most beautiful wings on his shoulders ; he himself was no bigger than Thumbelina .
7 He was the spirit of the flower .
8 In each blossom there dwelt a tiny man or woman ; but this one was the King over the others .
9 ` How handsome he is ! '
10 whispered Thumbelina to the swallow .
11 The little Prince was very much frightened at the swallow , for in comparison with one so tiny as himself he seemed a giant .
12 But when he saw Thumbelina , he was delighted , for she was the most beautiful girl he had ever seen .
13 So he took his golden crown from off his head and put it on hers , asking her her name , and if she would be his wife , and then she would be Queen of all the flowers .
14 Yes !
15 he was a different kind of husband to the son of the toad and the mole with the black-velvet coat .
16 So she said ` Yes ' to the noble Prince .
17 And out of each flower came a lady and gentleman , each so tiny and pretty that it was a pleasure to see them .
18 Each brought Thumbelina a present , but the best of all was a beautiful pair of wings which were fastened on to her back , and now she too could fly from flower to flower .
19 They all wished her joy , and the swallow sat above in his nest and sang the wedding march , and that he did as well as he could ; but he was sad , because he was very fond of Thumbelina and did not want to be separated from her .
20 ` You shall not be called Thumbelina ! '
21 said the XXXXX of the flower to her ; ` that is an ugly name , and you are much too pretty for that .	spirit		astonishment|giant|glass|home|man|middle|name|others|shoulders|spirit

1 he asked .
2 Peter shook his head .
3 `` I wish you Would stop fooling me , '' said Peter .
4 `` The joke is on me , but now you 've had your laugh at my expense , I wish you would tell me how you do it .
5 Please , Mr. Toad . ''
6 Now when Peter said please that way , of course Old Mr. Toad could n't resist him .
7 Nobody could .
8 `` Here comes an ant this way .
9 Now you watch my mouth instead of the ant and see what happens , '' said Old Mr. Toad .
10 Peter looked and saw a big black ant coming .
11 Then he kept his eyes on Old Mr. Toad 's mouth .
12 Suddenly there was a little flash of red from it , so tiny and so quick that Peter could n't be absolutely sure that he saw it .
13 But when he looked for the ant , it was nowhere to be seen .
14 Peter looked at Old Mr. Toad very hard .
15 `` Do you mean to tell me , Mr. Toad , that you 've got a tongue long enough to reach way over to where that ant was ? ''
16 he asked .
17 Old Mr. Toad chuckled again .
18 With every insect swallowed he felt better natured .
19 `` You 've guessed it , Peter , '' said he .
20 `` Handy tongue , is n't it ? ''
21 `` I think it 's a very queer XXXXX , '' retorted Peter , `` and I do n't understand it at all .	tongue		Mr.|Nobody|ant|course|expense|head|joke|laugh|tongue|way

1 If only someone would sing to him .
2 Music would carry his thoughts away , and would break the spell lying on him .
3 The moon was streaming in at the open window ; but that , too , was silent , quite silent .
4 ` Music !
5 music ! '
6 cried the Emperor .
7 ` You little bright golden bird , sing !
8 do sing !
9 I gave you gold and jewels ; I have hung my gold slipper round your neck with my own hand -- sing !
10 do sing ! '
11 But the bird was silent .
12 There was no one to wind it up , and so it could not sing .
13 And all was silent , so terribly silent !
14 All at once there came in at the window the most glorious burst of song .
15 It was the little living Nightingale , who , sitting outside on a bough , had heard the need of her Emperor and had come to sing to him of comfort and hope .
16 And as she sang the blood flowed quicker and quicker in the Emperor 's weak limbs , and life began to return .
17 ` Thank you , thank you ! '
18 said the Emperor .
19 ` You divine little bird !
20 I know you .
21 I chased you from my kingdom , and you have given me XXXXX again !	life		Music|bird|blood|jewels|life|moon|someone|spell|streaming|thoughts

1 Then the voice from the iron stove said , ' I will help you to find your home again , and that in a very short time , if you will promise to do what I ask you .
2 I am a greater prince than you are a princess , and I will marry you . '
3 Then she grew frightened , and thought , ` What can a young lassie do with an iron stove ? '
4 But as she wanted very much to go home to her father , she promised to do what he wished .
5 He said , ` You must come again , and bring a knife with you to scrape a hole in the iron . '
6 Then he gave her someone for a guide , who walked near her and said nothing , but he brought her in two hours to her house .
7 There was great joy in the castle when the Princess came back , and the old King fell on her neck and kissed her .
8 But she was very much troubled , and said , ` Dear father , listen to what has befallen me !
9 I should never have come home again out of the great wild wood if I had not come to an iron stove , to whom I have had to promise that I will go back to free him and marry him ! '
10 The old King was so frightened that he nearly fainted , for she was his only daughter .
11 So they consulted together , and determined that the miller 's daughter , who was very beautiful , should take her place .
12 They took her there , gave her a knife , and said she must scrape at the iron stove .
13 She scraped for twenty-four hours , but did not make the least impression .
14 When the day broke , a voice called from the iron stove , ` It seems to me that it is day outside . '
15 Then she answered , ` It seems so to me ; I think I hear my father 's mill rattling . '
16 ` So you are a miller 's daughter !
17 Then go away at once , and tell the King 's daughter to come . '
18 Then she went away , and told the old King that the thing inside the iron stove would not have her , but wanted the Princess .
19 The old King was frightened , and his daughter wept .
20 But they had a swineherd 's daughter who was even more beautiful than the miller 's daughter , and they gave her a piece of gold to go to the iron stove instead of the Princess .
21 Then she was taken out , and had to scrape for four-and-twenty hours , but she could make no XXXXX .	impression		father|guide|impression|iron|joy|mill|neck|nothing|prince|wood

1 The father of the rescued children was so delighted over the death of his enemy that he told the youth to get on his back , and in this way he carried him up to the world above .
2 With what joy did he hurry now to his brothers ' house !
3 He burst into a room where they were all assembled , but no one knew who he was .
4 Only his bride , who was serving as cook to her sisters , recognised her lover at once .
5 His brothers , who had quite believed he was dead , yielded him up his treasures at once , and flew into the woods in terror .
6 But the good youth forgave them all they had done , and divided his treasures with them .
7 Then he built himself a big castle with golden windows , and there he lived happily with his golden-haired wife till the end of their lives .
8 THE BOY AND THE WOLVES , OR THE BROKEN PROMISE -LRB- 18 -RRB- -LRB- 18 -RRB- A North American Indian story .
9 Once upon a time an Indian hunter built himself a house in the middle of a great forest , far away from all his tribe ; for his heart was gentle and kind , and he was weary of the treachery and cruel deeds of those who had been his friends .
10 So he left them , and took his wife and three children , and they journeyed on until they found a spot near to a clear stream , where they began to cut down trees , and to make ready their wigwam .
11 For many years they lived peacefully and happily in this sheltered place , never leaving it except to hunt the wild animals , which served them both for food and clothes .
12 At last , however , the strong man felt sick , and before long he knew he must die .
13 So he gathered his family round him , and said his last words to them .
14 ` You , my wife , the companion of my days , will follow me ere many moons have waned to the island of the blest .
15 But for you , O my children , whose lives are but newly begun , the wickedness , unkindness , and ingratitude from which I fled are before you .
16 Yet I shall go hence in peace , my children , if you will promise always to love each other , and never to forsake your youngest brother .
17 ` Never ! '
18 they replied , holding out their hands .
19 And the hunter died content .
20 Scarcely eight moons had passed when , just as he had said , the wife went forth , and followed her husband ; but before leaving her children she bade the two elder ones think of their promise never to forsake the younger , for he was a child , and weak .
21 And while the snow lay thick upon the ground , they tended him and cherished him ; but when the earth showed green again , the XXXXX of the young man stirred within him , and he longed to see the wigwams of the village where his father 's youth was spent .	heart		O|brothers|companion|food|heart|ingratitude|joy|kind|man|middle

1 The following year Warza , the second brother , tried his luck , but with the same result .
2 Then it came to the turn of the third and youngest son .
3 Iwanich was not the least discouraged by the failure of his elder brothers , though they were both much older and stronger than he was , and when night came climbed up the tree as they had done , The moon had risen , and with her soft light lit up the whole neighbourhood , so that the observant Prince could distinguish the smallest object distinctly .
4 At midnight a gentle west wind shook the tree , and at the same moment a snow-white swan-like bird sank down gently on his breast .
5 The Prince hastily seized the bird 's wings in his hands , when , lo !
6 to his astonishment he found he was holding in his arms not a bird but the most beautiful girl he had ever seen .
7 ` You need not fear Militza , ' said the beautiful girl , looking at the Prince with friendly eyes .
8 ` An evil magician has not robbed you of your fruit , but he stole the seed from my mother , and thereby caused her death .
9 When she was dying she bade me take the fruit , which you have no right to possess , from the trees every year as soon as it was ripe .
10 This I would have done to-night too , if you had not seized me with such force , and so broken the spell I was under . '
11 Iwanich , who had been prepared to meet a terrible magician and not a lovely girl , fell desperately in love with her .
12 They spent the rest of the night in pleasant conversation , and when Militza wished to go away he begged her not to leave him . '
13 I would gladly stay with you longer , ' said Militza , ` but a wicked witch once cut off a lock of my hair when I was asleep , which has put me in her power , and if morning were still to find me here she would do me some harm , and you , too , perhaps . '
14 Having said these words , she drew a sparkling diamond ring from her finger , which she handed to the Prince , saying : ` Keep this ring in memory of Militza , and think of her sometimes if you never see her again .
15 But if your love is really true , come and find me in my own kingdom .
16 I may not show you the way there , but this ring will guide you .
17 ` If you have love and courage enough to undertake this journey , whenever you come to a cross-road always look at this diamond before you settle which way you are going to take .
18 If it sparkles as brightly as ever go straight on , but if its lustre is dimmed choose another path . '
19 Then Militza bent over the Prince and kissed him on his forehead , and before he had time to say a word she vanished through the branches of the tree in a little white cloud .
20 Morning broke , and the Prince , still full of the wonderful apparition , left his perch and returned to the palace like one in a dream , without even knowing if the fruit had been taken or not ; for his whole mind was absorbed by thoughts of Militza and how he was to find her .
21 As soon as the head-gardener saw the Prince going towards the palace he ran to the trees , and when he saw them laden with ripe XXXXX he hastened to tell the King the joyful news .	fruit		arms|diamond|fruit|hair|luck|lustre|result|son|tree|words

1 For a young king cobra ?
2 For the last -- the very last of the brood ?
3 The ants are eating all the others down by the melon bed . ''
4 Nagaina spun clear round , forgetting everything for the sake of the one egg .
5 Rikki-tikki saw Teddy 's father shoot out a big hand , catch Teddy by the shoulder , and drag him across the little table with the tea-cups , safe and out of reach of Nagaina .
6 `` Tricked !
7 Tricked !
8 Tricked !
9 Rikk-tck-tck ! ''
10 chuckled Rikki-tikki .
11 `` The boy is safe , and it was I -- I -- I that caught Nag by the hood last night in the bathroom . ''
12 Then he began to jump up and down , all four feet together , his head close to the floor .
13 `` He threw me to and fro , but he could not shake me off .
14 He was dead before the big man blew him in two .
15 I did it !
16 Rikki-tikki-tck-tck !
17 Come then , Nagaina .
18 Come and fight with me .
19 You shall not be a widow long . ''
20 Nagaina saw that she had lost her chance of killing Teddy , and the egg lay between Rikki-tikki 's paws .
21 `` Give me the XXXXX , Rikki-tikki .	egg		bathroom|boy|egg|feet|man|night|round|sake|saw|widow

1 When she was gone the King felt how much he had loved her , and his grief was so great -LRB- though he never neglected his duties -RRB- that his subjects called him Peridor the Sorrowful .
2 It seems hardly possible that any man should live like Peridor for fifteen years plunged in such depth of grief , and most likely he would have died too if it had not been for the fairies .
3 The one comfort the poor King had was his son , Prince Saphir , who was only three years old at the time of his mother 's death , and great care was given to his education .
4 By the time he was fifteen Saphir had learnt everything that a prince should know , and he was , besides , charming and agreeable .
5 It was about this time that the fairies suddenly took fright lest his love for his father should interfere with the plans they had made for the young prince .
6 So , to prevent this , they placed in a pretty little room of which Saphir was very fond a little mirror in a black frame , such as were often brought from Venice .
7 The Prince did not notice for some days that there was anything new in the room , but at last he perceived it , and went up to look at it more closely .
8 What was his surprise to see reflected in the mirror , not his own face , but that of a young girl as lovely as the morning !
9 And , better still , every movement of the girl , just growing out of childhood , was also reflected in the wonderful glass .
10 As might have been expected , the young Prince lost his heart completely to the beautiful image , and it was impossible to get him out of the room , so busy was he in watching the lovely unknown .
11 Certainly it was very delightful to be able to see her whom he loved at any moment he chose , but his spirits sometimes sank when he wondered what was to be the end of this adventure .
12 The magic mirror had been for about a year in the Prince 's possession , when one day a new subject of disquiet seized upon him .
13 As usual , he was engaged in looking at the girl , when suddenly he thought he saw a second mirror reflected in the first , exactly like his own , and with the same power .
14 And in this he was perfectly right .
15 The young girl had only possessed it for a short time , and neglected all her duties for the sake of the mirror .
16 Now it was not difficult for Saphir to guess the reason of the change in her , nor why the new mirror was consulted so often ; but try as he would he could never see the face of the person who was reflected in it , for the young girl 's figure always came between .
17 All he knew was that the face was that of a man , and this was quite enough to make him madly jealous .
18 This was the doing of the fairies , and we must suppose that they had their reasons for acting as they did .
19 When these things happened Saphir was about eighteen years old , and fifteen years had passed away since the death of his mother .
20 King Peridor had grown more and more unhappy as time went on , and at last he fell so ill that it seemed as if his days were numbered .
21 He was so much beloved by his XXXXX that this sad news was heard with despair by the nation , and more than all by the Prince .	subjects		anything|death|frame|glass|image|mirror|person|plans|room|subjects

1 do sing ! '
2 But the bird was silent .
3 There was no one to wind it up , and so it could not sing .
4 And all was silent , so terribly silent !
5 All at once there came in at the window the most glorious burst of song .
6 It was the little living Nightingale , who , sitting outside on a bough , had heard the need of her Emperor and had come to sing to him of comfort and hope .
7 And as she sang the blood flowed quicker and quicker in the Emperor 's weak limbs , and life began to return .
8 ` Thank you , thank you ! '
9 said the Emperor .
10 ` You divine little bird !
11 I know you .
12 I chased you from my kingdom , and you have given me life again !
13 How can I reward you ? '
14 ` You have done that already ! '
15 said the Nightingale . '
16 I brought tears to your eyes the first time I sang .
17 I shall never forget that .
18 They are jewels that rejoice a singer 's heart .
19 But now sleep and get strong again ; I will sing you a lullaby . '
20 And the Emperor fell into a deep , calm sleep as she sang .
21 The sun was shining through the XXXXX when he awoke , strong and well .	window		bird|heart|jewels|kingdom|life|limbs|lullaby|singer|sleep|window

1 I chased you from my kingdom , and you have given me life again !
2 How can I reward you ? '
3 ` You have done that already ! '
4 said the Nightingale . '
5 I brought tears to your eyes the first time I sang .
6 I shall never forget that .
7 They are jewels that rejoice a singer 's heart .
8 But now sleep and get strong again ; I will sing you a lullaby . '
9 And the Emperor fell into a deep , calm sleep as she sang .
10 The sun was shining through the window when he awoke , strong and well .
11 None of his servants had come back yet , for they thought he was dead .
12 But the Nightingale sat and sang to him .
13 ` You must always stay with me ! '
14 said the Emperor .
15 ` You shall sing whenever you like , and I will break the artificial bird into a thousand pieces . '
16 ` Do n't do that ! '
17 said the Nightingale .
18 ` He did his work as long as he could .
19 Keep him as you have done !
20 I can not build my nest in the Palace and live here ; but let me come whenever I like .
21 I will sit in the evening on the bough outside the XXXXX , and I will sing you something that will make you feel happy and grateful .	window		Nightingale|eyes|kingdom|life|nest|pieces|servants|sun|tears|window

1 Oh , it is very beautiful , ' he said .
2 ` It has my gracious approval . '
3 And then he nodded pleasantly , and examined the empty loom , for he would not say that he could see nothing .
4 His whole Court round him looked and looked , and saw no more than the others ; but they said like the Emperor , ` Oh !
5 it is beautiful ! '
6 And they advised him to wear these new and magnificent clothes for the first time at the great procession which was soon to take place .
7 ` Splendid !
8 Lovely !
9 Most beautiful ! '
10 went from mouth to mouth ; everyone seemed delighted over them , and the Emperor gave to the impostors the title of Court weavers to the Emperor .
11 Throughout the whole of the night before the morning on which the procession was to take place , the impostors were up and were working by the light of over sixteen candles .
12 The people could see that they were very busy making the Emperor 's new clothes ready .
13 They pretended they were taking the cloth from the loom , cut with huge scissors in the air , sewed with needles without thread , and then said at last , ` Now the clothes are finished ! '
14 The Emperor came himself with his most distinguished knights , and each impostor held up his arm just as if he were holding something , and said , ` See !
15 here are the breeches !
16 Here is the coat !
17 Here the cloak ! '
18 and so on .
19 ` Spun clothes are so comfortable that one would imagine one had nothing on at all ; but that is the beauty of it ! '
20 ` Yes , ' said all the knights , but they could see nothing , for there was nothing there .
21 ` Will it please your Majesty graciously to take off your clothes , ' said the impostors , ` then we will put on the new XXXXX , here before the mirror . '	clothes		air|candles|cloak|cloth|clothes|knights|nothing|scissors|time|whole

1 I do not believe that name has been printed any more than the others .
2 Cleangone !
3 What can it mean ? '
4 She shook her head , curled herself up , and went to sleep .
5 From this time on no one asked the Cat to stand godmother ; but when the winter came and there was nothing to be got outside , the Mouse remembered their provision and said , ` Come , Cat , we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored away ; it will taste very good . '
6 ` Yes , indeed , ' answered the Cat ; ` it will taste as good to you as if you stretched your thin tongue out of the window . '
7 They started off , and when they reached it they found the pot in its place , but quite empty !
8 ` Ah , ' said the Mouse , ' ` now I know what has happened !
9 It has all come out !
10 You are a true friend to me !
11 You have eaten it all when you stood godmother ; first the top off , then half of it gone , then -- ' ` Will you be quiet ! '
12 screamed the Cat .
13 ` Another word and I will eat you up . '
14 ` Clean-gone ' was already on the poor Mouse 's tongue , and scarcely was it out than the Cat made a spring at her , seized and swallowed her .
15 You see that is the way of the world .
16 THE SIX SWANS A king was once hunting in a great wood , and he hunted the game so eagerly that none of his courtiers could follow him .
17 When evening came on he stood still and looked round him , and he saw that he had quite lost himself .
18 He sought a way out , but could find none .
19 Then he saw an old woman with a shaking head coming towards him ; but she was a witch .
20 ` Good woman , ' he said to her , ` can you not show me the way out of the wood ? '
21 ` Oh , certainly , Sir King , ' she replied , ' I can quite well do that , but on one condition , which if you do not fulfil you will never get out of the XXXXX , and will die of hunger . '	wood		Cat|head|others|provision|time|tongue|window|witch|woman|wood

1 At last as it was beginning to grow dark she appeared .
2 She swooped down upon a big apple-tree , and after shaking some golden apples from it , she pounced down upon the earth .
3 As soon as her feet touched the ground she became transformed from a hawk into a woman .
4 This was the moment the youth was waiting for , and he swung his mighty sword in the air with all his strength and the witch 's head fell off , and her blood spurted up on the walls .
5 Without fear of any further danger , he packed up all the treasures of the castle into great chests , and gave his brothers a signal to pull them up out of the abyss .
6 First the treasures were attached to the rope and then the three lovely girls .
7 And now everything was up above and only he himself remained below .
8 But as he was a little suspicious of his brothers , he fastened a heavy stone on to the rope and let them pull it up .
9 At first they heaved with a will , but when the stone was half way up they let it drop suddenly , and it fell to the bottom broken into a hundred pieces .
10 ` So that 's what would have happened to my bones had I trusted myself to them , ' said the youth sadly ; and he began to cry bitterly , not because of the treasures , but because of the lovely girl with her swanlike neck and golden hair .
11 For a long time he wandered sadly all through the beautiful underworld , and one day he met a magician who asked him the cause of his tears .
12 The youth told him all that had befallen him , and the magician said : ` Do not grieve , young man !
13 If you will guard the children who are hidden in the golden apple-tree , I will bring you at once up to the earth .
14 Another magician who lives in this land always eats my children up .
15 It is in vain that I have hidden them under the earth and locked them into the castle .
16 Now I have hidden them in the apple-tree ; hide yourself there too , and at midnight you will see my enemy . '
17 The youth climbed up the tree , and picked some of the beautiful golden apples , which he ate for his supper .
18 At midnight the wind began to rise , and a rustling sound was heard at the foot of the tree .
19 The youth looked down and beheld a long thick serpent beginning to crawl up the tree .
20 It wound itself round the stem and gradually got higher and higher .
21 It stretched its huge head , in which the eyes glittered fiercely , among the branches , searching for the nest in which the little XXXXX lay .	children		apples|castle|children|enemy|everything|fear|land|serpent|tears|treasures

1 They fastened some of the burning pine-wood to the end of the rope , and let it slowly down to the bottom of the abyss .
2 At first it was quite dark , and the flaming torch only lit up dirty grey stone walls .
3 But the youngest brother determined to explore the abyss , and letting himself down by the rope he soon reached the bottom .
4 Here he found a lovely meadow full of green trees and exquisite flowers .
5 In the middle of the meadow stood a huge stone castle , with an iron gate leading to it , which was wide open .
6 Everything in the castle seemed to be made of copper , and the only inhabitant he could discover was a lovely girl , who was combing her golden hair ; and he noticed that whenever one of her hairs fell on the ground it rang out like pure metal .
7 The youth looked at her more closely , and saw that her skin was smooth and fair , her blue eyes bright and sparkling , and her hair as golden as the sun .
8 He fell in love with her on the spot , and kneeling at her feet , he implored her to become his wife .
9 The lovely girl accepted his proposal gladly ; but at the same time she warned him that she could never come up to the world above till her mother , the old witch , was dead .
10 And she went on to tell him that the only way in which the old creature could be killed was with the sword that hung up in the castle ; but the sword was so heavy that no one could lift it .
11 Then the youth went into a room in the castle where everything was made of silver , and here he found another beautiful girl , the sister of his bride .
12 She was combing her silver hair , and every hair that fell on the ground rang out like pure metal .
13 The second girl handed him the sword , but though he tried with all his strength he could not lift it .
14 At last a third sister came to him and gave him a drop of something to drink , which she said would give him the needful strength .
15 He drank one drop , but still he could not lift the sword ; then he drank a second , and the sword began to move ; but only after he had drunk a third drop was he able to swing the sword over his head .
16 Then he hid himself in the castle and awaited the old witch 's arrival .
17 At last as it was beginning to grow dark she appeared .
18 She swooped down upon a big apple-tree , and after shaking some golden apples from it , she pounced down upon the earth .
19 As soon as her feet touched the ground she became transformed from a hawk into a woman .
20 This was the moment the youth was waiting for , and he swung his mighty sword in the air with all his strength and the witch 's head fell off , and her blood spurted up on the walls .
21 Without fear of any further danger , he packed up all the treasures of the XXXXX into great chests , and gave his brothers a signal to pull them up out of the abyss .	castle		arrival|castle|creature|end|rope|strength|torch|walls|way|youth

1 On the evening when he left the Stearns ' homestead , Mr. Stearns paid him for his fortnight 's work , much to the boy 's surprise , for Mrs. Elwell had always insisted that all such money should be paid directly to her .
2 Chester found himself the possessor of four dollars -- an amount of riches that almost took away his breath .
3 He had never in his whole life owned more than ten cents at a time .
4 As he tramped along the road home , he kept his hand in his pocket , holding fast to the money , as if he feared it would otherwise dissolve into thin air .
5 His mind was firmly made up .
6 He would run away once and for all .
7 This money was rightly his ; he had earned every cent of it .
8 It would surely last him until he found employment elsewhere .
9 At any rate , he would go ; and even if he starved , he would never come back to Aunt Harriet 's !
10 When he reached home , he found Mrs. Elwell in an unusual state of worry .
11 Lige had given warning -- and this on the verge of harvest !
12 `` Did Stearns say anything about coming down tomorrow to pay me for your work ? ''
13 she asked .
14 `` No , ma'am .
15 He did n't say a word about it , '' said Chester boldly .
16 `` Well , I hope he will .
17 Take yourself off to bed , Ches .
18 I 'm sick of seeing you standing there , on one foot or t ` other , like a gander . ''
19 Chester had been shifting about uneasily .
20 He realized that , if his project did not miscarry , he would not see his aunt again , and his heart softened to her .
21 Harsh as she was , she was the only protector he had ever known , and the XXXXX had a vague wish to carry away with him some kindly word or look from her .	boy		anything|aunt|boy|gander|home|homestead|money|time|warning|work

1 ` It wo n't please you any better , ' said the Cat , ` he was called Clean Gone . '
2 ` Cleangone ! '
3 repeated the Mouse . '
4 I do not believe that name has been printed any more than the others .
5 Cleangone !
6 What can it mean ? '
7 She shook her head , curled herself up , and went to sleep .
8 From this time on no one asked the Cat to stand godmother ; but when the winter came and there was nothing to be got outside , the Mouse remembered their provision and said , ` Come , Cat , we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored away ; it will taste very good . '
9 ` Yes , indeed , ' answered the Cat ; ` it will taste as good to you as if you stretched your thin tongue out of the window . '
10 They started off , and when they reached it they found the pot in its place , but quite empty !
11 ` Ah , ' said the Mouse , ' ` now I know what has happened !
12 It has all come out !
13 You are a true friend to me !
14 You have eaten it all when you stood godmother ; first the top off , then half of it gone , then -- ' ` Will you be quiet ! '
15 screamed the Cat .
16 ` Another word and I will eat you up . '
17 ` Clean-gone ' was already on the poor Mouse 's tongue , and scarcely was it out than the Cat made a spring at her , seized and swallowed her .
18 You see that is the way of the world .
19 THE SIX SWANS A king was once hunting in a great wood , and he hunted the game so eagerly that none of his courtiers could follow him .
20 When evening came on he stood still and looked round him , and he saw that he had quite lost himself .
21 He sought a XXXXX out , but could find none .	way		SWANS|half|king|place|pot|provision|tongue|top|way|word

1 But he was very busy now , for he had to cook and mend , besides getting food , for there was no one to help him .
2 And so a whole year passed away .
3 At the end of that time he came back from hunting one night and found some wood by the door and a fire within .
4 The next night there was not only wood and fire , but a piece of meat in the kettle , nearly ready for eating .
5 He searched all about to see who could have done this , but could find no one .
6 The next time he went to hunt he took care not to go far , and came in quite early .
7 And while he was still a long way off he saw a woman going into the house with wood on her shoulders .
8 So he made haste , and opened the door quickly , and instead of the wooden doll , his wife sat in front of the fire .
9 Then she spoke to him and said , ` The Great Spirit felt sorry for you , because you would not be comforted , so he let me come back to you , but you must not stretch out your hand to touch me till we have seen the rest of our people .
10 If you do , I shall die . '
11 So the man listened to her words , and the woman dwelt there , and brought the wood and kindled the fire , till one day her husband said to her , ` It is now two years since you died .
12 Let us now go back to our tribe .
13 Then you will be well , and I can touch you . '
14 And with that he prepared food for the journey , a string of deer 's flesh for her to carry , and one for himself ; and so they started .
15 Now the camp of the tribe was distant six days ' journey , and when they were yet one day 's journey off it began to snow , and they felt weary and longed for rest .
16 Therefore they made a fire , cooked some food , and spread out their skins to sleep .
17 Then the heart of the man was greatly stirred , and he stretched out his arms to his wife , but she waved her hands and said , ` We have seen no one yet ; it is too soon . '
18 But he would not listen to her , and caught her to him , and behold !
19 he was clasping the wooden doll .
20 And when he saw it was the doll he pushed it from him in his misery and rushed away to the camp , and told them all his story .
21 And some doubted , and they went back with him to the place where he and his wife had stopped to rest , and there lay the doll , and besides , they saw in the XXXXX the steps of two people , and the foot of one was like the foot of the doll .	snow		Spirit|camp|food|hunting|journey|man|skins|snow|time|woman

1 'T is a pity to send that young jungle-cock to molt in the plains . ''
2 Now Petersen Sahib had ears all over him , as a man must have who listens to the most silent of all living things -- the wild elephant .
3 He turned where he was lying all along on Pudmini 's back and said , `` What is that ?
4 I did not know of a man among the plains-drivers who had wit enough to rope even a dead elephant . ''
5 `` This is not a man , but a boy .
6 He went into the Keddah at the last drive , and threw Barmao there the rope , when we were trying to get that young calf with the blotch on his shoulder away from his mother . ''
7 Machua Appa pointed at Little Toomai , and Petersen Sahib looked , and Little Toomai bowed to the earth .
8 `` He throw a rope ?
9 He is smaller than a picket-pin .
10 Little one , what is thy name ? ''
11 said Petersen Sahib .
12 Little Toomai was too frightened to speak , but Kala Nag was behind him , and Toomai made a sign with his hand , and the elephant caught him up in his trunk and held him level with Pudmini 's forehead , in front of the great Petersen Sahib .
13 Then Little Toomai covered his face with his hands , for he was only a child , and except where elephants were concerned , he was just as bashful as a child could be .
14 `` Oho ! ''
15 said Petersen Sahib , smiling underneath his mustache , `` and why didst thou teach thy elephant that trick ?
16 Was it to help thee steal green corn from the roofs of the houses when the ears are put out to dry ? ''
17 `` Not green corn , Protector of the Poor , -- melons , '' said Little Toomai , and all the men sitting about broke into a roar of laughter .
18 Most of them had taught their elephants that trick when they were boys .
19 Little Toomai was hanging eight feet up in the air , and he wished very much that he were eight feet underground .
20 `` He is Toomai , my son , Sahib , '' said Big Toomai , scowling .
21 `` He is a very bad XXXXX , and he will end in a jail , Sahib . ''	boy		Poor|boy|calf|child|corn|ears|men|roofs|son|things

1 And this -- why , it is almost a miracle . ''
2 She ran , light-footedly as a girl , to the house for scissors and a basket .
3 She would send Juliet Gordon the bride roses .
4 Her cheeks were pink from excitement as she snipped them off .
5 How lovely they were !
6 How very large and fragrant !
7 It was as if all the grace and perfume and beauty and glory of those twenty lost summers were found here at once in them .
8 When Miss Corona had them ready , she went to the door and called , `` Charlotte !
9 Charlotte ! ''
10 Now Charlotta , having atoned to her conscience for the destruction of the green and yellow bowl by faithfully weeding the garden , a task which she hated above all else , was singing a hymn among the sweet peas , and her red braids were over her shoulders .
11 This ought to have warned Miss Corona , but Miss Corona was thinking of other things , and kept on calling patiently , while Charlotta weeded away for dear life , and seemed smitten with treble deafness .
12 After a time Miss Corona remembered and sighed .
13 She did hate to call the child that foolish name with its foreign sound .
14 Just as if plain `` Charlotte '' were not good enough for her , and much more suitable to `` Smith '' too !
15 Ordinarily Miss Corona would not have given in .
16 But the case was urgent ; she could not stand upon her dignity just now .
17 `` Charlotta ! ''
18 she called entreatingly .
19 Instantly Charlotta flew to the garden gate and raced up to the door .
20 `` Yes 'm , '' she said meekly .
21 `` You want me , XXXXX C'rona ? ''	Miss		Charlotte|Miss|dignity|door|garden|grace|hymn|life|miracle|peas

1 ` It goes all right ! '
2 said Little Klaus ; but still he laid a big stone in the sack , fastened it up tight , and then pushed it in .
3 Plump !
4 there was Big Klaus in the water , and he sank like lead to the bottom . '
5 I doubt if he will find any cattle ! '
6 said Little Klaus as he drove his own home .
7 PRINCE RING -LRB- 30 -RRB- -LRB- 30 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
8 Once upon a time there was a King and his Queen in their kingdom .
9 They had one daughter , who was called Ingiborg , and one son , whose name was Ring .
10 He was less fond of adventures than men of rank usually were in those days , and was not famous for strength or feats of arms .
11 When he was twelve years old , one fine winter day he rode into the forest along with his men to enjoy himself .
12 They went on a long way , until they caught sight of a hind with a gold ring on its horns .
13 The Prince was eager to catch it , if possible , so they gave chase and rode on without stopping until all the horses began to founder beneath them .
14 At last the Prince 's horse gave way too , and then there came over them a darkness so black that they could no longer see the hind .
15 By this time they were far away from any house , and thought it was high time to be making their way home again , but they found they had got lost now .
16 At first they all kept together , but soon each began to think that he knew the right way best ; so they separated , and all went in different directions .
17 The Prince , too , had got lost like the rest , and wandered on for a time until he came to a little clearing in the forest not far from the sea , where he saw a woman sitting on a chair and a big barrel standing beside her .
18 The Prince went up to her and saluted her politely , and she received him very graciously .
19 He looked down into the barrel then , and saw lying at the bottom an unusually beautiful gold ring , which pleased him so much that he could not take his eyes off it .
20 The woman saw this , and said that he might have it if he would take the trouble to get it ; for which the Prince thanked her , and said it was at least worth trying .
21 So he leaned over into the barrel , which did not seem very deep , and thought he would easily reach the ring ; but the more he stretched down after it the deeper grew the XXXXX .	barrel		barrel|chase|daughter|directions|forest|hind|kingdom|men|sea|winter

1 The other said , ` Do you see that large cornfield there ?
2 If we were to hide ourselves in that , no one could find us .
3 The army can not come into it , and to-morrow it is to march on . '
4 They crept into the corn , but the army did not march on , but remained encamped close around them .
5 They sat for two days and two nights in the corn , and grew so hungry that they nearly died ; but if they were to venture out , it was certain death .
6 They said at last , ` What use was it our deserting ?
7 We must perish here miserably . '
8 Whilst they were speaking a fiery dragon came flying through the air .
9 It hovered near them , and asked why they were hidden there .
10 They answered , ` We are three soldiers , and have deserted because our pay was so small .
11 Now if we remain here we shall die of hunger , and if we move out we shall be strung up on the gallows . '
12 ` If you will serve me for seven years , ' said the dragon , I will lead you through the midst of the army so that no one shall catch you . '
13 ` We have no choice , and must take your offer , ' said they .
14 Then the dragon seized them in his claws , took them through the air over the army , and set them down on the earth a long way from it .
15 He gave them a little whip , saying , ` Whip and slash with this , and as much money as you want will jump up before you .
16 You can then live as great lords , keep horses , and drive about in carriages .
17 But after seven years you are mine . '
18 Then he put a book before them , which he made all three of them sign . '
19 I will then give you a riddle , ' he said ; ` if you guess it , you shall be free and out of my power . '
20 The dragon then flew away , and they journeyed on with their little whip .
21 They had as much money as they wanted , wore grand clothes , and made their XXXXX into the world .	way		air|claws|gallows|hunger|midst|offer|pay|riddle|way|whip

1 Besides , Kotick was a white seal .
2 `` What you must do , '' said old Sea Catch , after he had heard his son 's adventures , `` is to grow up and be a big seal like your father , and have a nursery on the beach , and then they will leave you alone .
3 In another five years you ought to be able to fight for yourself . ''
4 Even gentle Matkah , his mother , said : `` You will never be able to stop the killing .
5 Go and play in the sea , Kotick . ''
6 And Kotick went off and danced the Fire-dance with a very heavy little heart .
7 That autumn he left the beach as soon as he could , and set off alone because of a notion in his bullet-head .
8 He was going to find Sea Cow , if there was such a person in the sea , and he was going to find a quiet island with good firm beaches for seals to live on , where men could not get at them .
9 So he explored and explored by himself from the North to the South Pacific , swimming as much as three hundred miles in a day and a night .
10 He met with more adventures than can be told , and narrowly escaped being caught by the Basking Shark , and the Spotted Shark , and the Hammerhead , and he met all the untrustworthy ruffians that loaf up and down the seas , and the heavy polite fish , and the scarlet spotted scallops that are moored in one place for hundreds of years , and grow very proud of it ; but he never met Sea Cow , and he never found an island that he could fancy .
11 If the beach was good and hard , with a slope behind it for seals to play on , there was always the smoke of a whaler on the horizon , boiling down blubber , and Kotick knew what that meant .
12 Or else he could see that seals had once visited the island and been killed off , and Kotick knew that where men had come once they would come again .
13 He picked up with an old stumpy-tailed albatross , who told him that Kerguelen Island was the very place for peace and quiet , and when Kotick went down there he was all but smashed to pieces against some wicked black cliffs in a heavy sleet-storm with lightning and thunder .
14 Yet as he pulled out against the gale he could see that even there had once been a seal nursery .
15 And it was so in all the other islands that he visited .
16 Limmershin gave a long list of them , for he said that Kotick spent five seasons exploring , with a four months ' rest each year at Novastoshnah , when the holluschickie used to make fun of him and his imaginary islands .
17 He went to the Gallapagos , a horrid dry place on the Equator , where he was nearly baked to death ; he went to the Georgia Islands , the Orkneys , Emerald Island , Little Nightingale Island , Gough 's Island , Bouvet 's Island , the Crossets , and even to a little speck of an island south of the Cape of Good Hope .
18 But everywhere the People of the Sea told him the same things .
19 Seals had come to those islands once upon a time , but men had killed them all off .
20 Even when he swam thousands of miles out of the Pacific and got to a place called Cape Corrientes -LRB- that was when he was coming back from Gough 's Island -RRB- , he found a few hundred mangy seals on a rock and they told him that men came there too .
21 That nearly broke his heart , and he headed round the Horn back to his own beaches ; and on his way north he hauled out on an island full of green trees , where he found an old , old seal who was dying , and Kotick caught XXXXX for him and told him all his sorrows .	fish		Basking|Sea|fancy|fish|gale|horizon|island|miles|mother|seal

1 Her skin was tanned and coarsened , but the warm crimson blood glowed in her cheeks with a dusky richness , and her face was a perfect oval , with features chiselled in almost classic regularity of outline .
2 Telford had a curious experience at that moment .
3 He seemed to see , looking out from behind this external mask of degraded beauty , the semblance of what this woman might have been under more favouring circumstance of birth and environment , wherein her rich , passionate nature , potent for either good or evil , might have been trained and swayed aright until it had developed grandly out into the glorious womanhood the Creator must have planned for her .
4 He knew , as if by revelation , that this woman had nothing in common with the narrow , self-righteous souls of Rykman 's Corner .
5 Warped and perverted though her nature might be , she was yet far nobler than those who sat in judgement upon her .
6 Min made some scanty purchases and left the store quickly , brushing unheedingly past the minister as she did so .
7 He saw her step on a rough wood-sleigh and drive down the river road .
8 The platform loungers had been silent during her call , but now the talk bubbled forth anew .
9 Telford was sick at heart as he drove swiftly away .
10 He felt for Min Palmer a pity he could not understand or analyze .
11 The attempt to measure the gulf between what she was and what she might have been hurt him like the stab of a knife .
12 He made several calls at various houses along the river during the forenoon .
13 After dinner he suddenly turned his horse towards the Palmer place .
14 Isaac Galletly , comfortably curled up in a neighbour 's chimney corner , saw him drive past .
15 `` Ef the minister ai n't goin ' to Palmers ' after all ! ''
16 he chuckled .
17 `` He 's a set one when he does take a notion .
18 Well , I warned him what to expect .
19 If Min claws his eyes out , he 'll only have himself to blame . ''
20 Telford was not without his own misgivings as he drove into the Palmer yard .
21 He tied his XXXXX to the fence and looked doubtfully about him .	horse		beauty|brushing|heart|horse|houses|minister|purchases|revelation|talk|woman

1 Now listen to me : I must still remain enchanted for three months .
2 Will you stay here with me till that time is over ? '
3 So the Princess stayed with him , and said to the old man , ` Go back to the castle and tell my parents that I am staying here . '
4 Her parents were very much vexed when the old man came back and told them this , but as soon as the three months of the Prince 's enchantment were over , he ceased to be an eagle and became once more a man , and they returned home together .
5 And then they lived happily , and we who hear the story are happier still .
6 THE IRON STOVE -LRB- 7 -RRB- -LRB- 7 -RRB- Grimm .
7 Once upon a time when wishes came true there was a king 's son who was enchanted by an old witch , so that he was obliged to sit in a large iron stove in a wood .
8 There he lived for many years , and no one could free him .
9 At last a king 's daughter came into the wood ; she had lost her way , and could not find her father 's kingdom again .
10 She had been wandering round and round for nine days , and she came at last to the iron case .
11 A voice came from within and asked her , ` Where do you come from , and where do you want to go ? '
12 She answered , ' I have lost my way to my father 's kingdom , and I shall never get home again . '
13 Then the voice from the iron stove said , ' I will help you to find your home again , and that in a very short time , if you will promise to do what I ask you .
14 I am a greater prince than you are a princess , and I will marry you . '
15 Then she grew frightened , and thought , ` What can a young lassie do with an iron stove ? '
16 But as she wanted very much to go home to her father , she promised to do what he wished .
17 He said , ` You must come again , and bring a knife with you to scrape a hole in the iron . '
18 Then he gave her someone for a guide , who walked near her and said nothing , but he brought her in two hours to her house .
19 There was great joy in the castle when the Princess came back , and the old King fell on her neck and kissed her .
20 But she was very much troubled , and said , ` Dear father , listen to what has befallen me !
21 I should never have come XXXXX again out of the great wild wood if I had not come to an iron stove , to whom I have had to promise that I will go back to free him and marry him ! '	home		castle|home|house|joy|kingdom|knife|princess|time|voice|wood

1 wow ! '
2 ` Here !
3 you may nurse it a bit , if you like ! '
4 the Duchess said to Alice , flinging the baby at her as she spoke . '
5 I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen , ' and she hurried out of the room .
6 The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out , but it just missed her .
7 Alice caught the baby with some difficulty , as it was a queer-shaped little creature , and held out its arms and legs in all directions , ` just like a star-fish , ' thought Alice .
8 The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it , and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again , so that altogether , for the first minute or two , it was as much as she could do to hold it .
9 As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it , -LRB- which was to twist it up into a sort of knot , and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot , so as to prevent its undoing itself , -RRB- she carried it out into the open air .
10 ` IF I do n't take this child away with me , ' thought Alice , ` they 're sure to kill it in a day or two : would n't it be murder to leave it behind ? '
11 She said the last words out loud , and the little thing grunted in reply -LRB- it had left off sneezing by this time -RRB- .
12 ` Do n't grunt , ' said Alice ; ` that 's not at all a proper way of expressing yourself . '
13 The baby grunted again , and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it .
14 There could be no doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose , much more like a snout than a real nose ; also its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby : altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at all .
15 ` But perhaps it was only sobbing , ' she thought , and looked into its eyes again , to see if there were any tears .
16 No , there were no tears .
17 ` If you 're going to turn into a pig , my dear , ' said Alice , seriously , ` I 'll have nothing more to do with you .
18 Mind now ! '
19 The poor little thing sobbed again -LRB- or grunted , it was impossible to say which -RRB- , and they went on for some while in silence .
20 Alice was just beginning to think to herself , ` Now , what am I to do with this creature when I get it home ? '
21 when it grunted again , so violently , that she looked down into its XXXXX in some alarm .	face		arms|cook|directions|face|look|matter|room|thing|words|wow

1 And a similar fate will overtake everyone under the Sun who wrongfully assumes a title to which he has no right . '
2 THE WITCH -LRB- 28 -RRB- -LRB- 28 -RRB- From the Russian .
3 Once upon a time there was a peasant whose wife died , leaving him with two children -- twins -- a boy and a girl .
4 For some years the poor man lived on alone with the children , caring for them as best he could ; but everything in the house seemed to go wrong without a woman to look after it , and at last he made up his mind to marry again , feeling that a wife would bring peace and order to his household and take care of his motherless children .
5 So he married , and in the following years several children were born to him ; but peace and order did not come to the household .
6 For the step-mother was very cruel to the twins , and beat them , and half-starved them , and constantly drove them out of the house ; for her one idea was to get them out of the way .
7 All day she thought of nothing but how she should get rid of them ; and at last an evil idea came into her head , and she determined to send them out into the great gloomy wood where a wicked witch lived .
8 And so one morning she spoke to them , saying : ` You have been such good children that I am going to send you to visit my granny , who lives in a dear little hut in the wood .
9 You will have to wait upon her and serve her , but you will be well rewarded , for she will give you the best of everything . '
10 So the children left the house together ; and the little sister , who was very wise for her years , said to the brother : ` We will first go and see our own dear grandmother , and tell her where our step-mother is sending us . '
11 And when the grandmother heard where they were going , she cried and said : ` You poor motherless children !
12 How I pity you ; and yet I can do nothing to help you !
13 Your step-mother is not sending you to her granny , but to a wicked witch who lives in that great gloomy wood .
14 Now listen to me , children .
15 You must be civil and kind to everyone , and never say a cross word to anyone , and never touch a crumb belonging to anyone else .
16 Who knows if , after all , help may not be sent to you ? '
17 And she gave her grandchildren a bottle of milk and a piece of ham and a loaf of bread , and they set out for the great gloomy wood .
18 When they reached it they saw in front of them , in the thickest of the trees , a queer little hut , and when they looked into it , there lay the witch , with her head on the threshold of the door , with one foot in one corner and the other in the other corner , and her knees cocked up , almost touching the ceiling .
19 ` Who 's there ? '
20 she snarled , in an awful voice , when she saw the children .
21 And they answered civilly , though they were so terrified that they hid behind one another , and said : ` Good-morning , XXXXX ; our step-mother has sent us to wait upon you , and serve you . '	granny		front|grandmother|granny|idea|pity|threshold|title|twins|voice|wife

1 Once upon a time there were a man and his wife who lived in the forest , very far from the rest of the tribe .
2 Very often they spent the day in hunting together , but after a while the wife found that she had so many things to do that she was obliged to stay at home ; so he went alone , though he found that when his wife was not with him he never had any luck .
3 One day , when he was away hunting , the woman fell ill , and in a few days she died .
4 Her husband grieved bitterly , and buried her in the house where she had passed her life ; but as the time went on he felt so lonely without her that he made a wooden doll about her height and size for company , and dressed it in her clothes .
5 He seated it in front of the fire , and tried to think he had his wife back again .
6 The next day he went out to hunt , and when he came home the first thing he did was to go up to the doll and brush off some of the ashes from the fire which had fallen on its face .
7 But he was very busy now , for he had to cook and mend , besides getting food , for there was no one to help him .
8 And so a whole year passed away .
9 At the end of that time he came back from hunting one night and found some wood by the door and a fire within .
10 The next night there was not only wood and fire , but a piece of meat in the kettle , nearly ready for eating .
11 He searched all about to see who could have done this , but could find no one .
12 The next time he went to hunt he took care not to go far , and came in quite early .
13 And while he was still a long way off he saw a woman going into the house with wood on her shoulders .
14 So he made haste , and opened the door quickly , and instead of the wooden doll , his wife sat in front of the fire .
15 Then she spoke to him and said , ` The Great Spirit felt sorry for you , because you would not be comforted , so he let me come back to you , but you must not stretch out your hand to touch me till we have seen the rest of our people .
16 If you do , I shall die . '
17 So the man listened to her words , and the woman dwelt there , and brought the wood and kindled the fire , till one day her husband said to her , ` It is now two years since you died .
18 Let us now go back to our tribe .
19 Then you will be well , and I can touch you . '
20 And with that he prepared food for the journey , a string of deer 's flesh for her to carry , and one for himself ; and so they started .
21 Now the camp of the tribe was distant six days ' XXXXX , and when they were yet one day 's journey off it began to snow , and they felt weary and longed for rest .	journey		day|front|hand|home|hunt|husband|journey|life|people|woman

1 The Prince was not completely roused , but he opened his eyes a little and looked all the handsomer .
2 Impatient at not being recognised , Fairer-than-a-Fairy now drew out her third present , and on opening the crystal scent-bottle a little syren flew out , who silenced the violins and then sang close to the Prince 's ear the story of all his lady love had suffered in her search for him .
3 She added some gentle reproaches to her tale , but before she had got far he was wide awake , and transported with joy threw himself at the Princess 's feet .
4 At the same moment the walls of the room expanded and opened out , revealing a golden throne covered with jewels .
5 A magnificent Court now began to assemble , and at the same time several elegant carriages filled with ladies in magnificent dresses drove up .
6 In the first and most splendid of these carriages sat Prince Rainbow 's mother .
7 She fondly embraced her son , after which she informed him that his father had been dead for some years , that the anger of the Fairies was at length appeased , and that he might return in peace to reign over his people , who were longing for his presence .
8 The Court received the new King with joyful acclamations which would have delighted him at any other time , but all his thoughts were full of Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
9 He was just about to present her to his mother and the Court , feeling sure that her charms would win all hearts , when the three green and white sisters appeared .
10 They declared the secret of Fairy-than-a-Fairy 's royal birth , and the Queen taking the two lovers in her carriage set off with them for the capital of the kingdom .
11 Here they were received with tumultuous joy .
12 The wedding was celebrated without delay , and succeeding years diminished neither the virtues , beauty , nor the mutual affection of King Rainbow and his Queen , Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
13 THE THREE BROTHERS -LRB- 17 -RRB- -LRB- 17 -RRB- From the Polish .
14 Kletke .
15 There was once upon a time a witch , who in the shape of a hawk used every night to break the windows of a certain village church .
16 In the same village there lived three brothers , who were all determined to kill the mischievous hawk .
17 But in vain did the two eldest mount guard in the church with their guns ; as soon as the bird appeared high above their heads , sleep overpowered them , and they only awoke to hear the windows crashing in .
18 Then the youngest brother took his turn of guarding the windows , and to prevent his being overcome by sleep he placed a lot of thorns under his chin , so that if he felt drowsy and nodded his head , they would prick him and keep him awake .
19 The moon was already risen , and it was as light as day , when suddenly he heard a fearful noise , and at the same time a terrible desire to sleep overpowered him .
20 His eyelids closed , and his head sank on his shoulders , but the thorns ran into him and were so painful that he awoke at once .
21 He saw the hawk swooping down upon the church , and in a XXXXX he had seized his gun and shot at the bird .	moment		charms|ear|eyelids|guard|head|moment|story|tale|thorns|turn

1 he was a different kind of husband to the son of the toad and the mole with the black-velvet coat .
2 So she said ` Yes ' to the noble Prince .
3 And out of each flower came a lady and gentleman , each so tiny and pretty that it was a pleasure to see them .
4 Each brought Thumbelina a present , but the best of all was a beautiful pair of wings which were fastened on to her back , and now she too could fly from flower to flower .
5 They all wished her joy , and the swallow sat above in his nest and sang the wedding march , and that he did as well as he could ; but he was sad , because he was very fond of Thumbelina and did not want to be separated from her .
6 ` You shall not be called Thumbelina ! '
7 said the spirit of the flower to her ; ` that is an ugly name , and you are much too pretty for that .
8 We will call you May Blossom . '
9 ` Farewell , farewell ! '
10 said the little swallow with a heavy heart , and flew away to farther lands , far , far away , right back to Denmark .
11 There he had a little nest above a window , where his wife lived , who can tell fairy-stories .
12 ` Tweet , tweet ! '
13 he sang to her .
14 And that is the way we learnt the whole story .
15 THE NIGHTINGALE In China , as I daresay you know , the Emperor is a Chinaman , and all his courtiers are also Chinamen .
16 The story I am going to tell you happened many years ago , but it is worth while for you to listen to it , before it is forgotten .
17 The Emperor 's Palace was the most splendid in the world , all made of priceless porcelain , but so brittle and delicate that you had to take great care how you touched it .
18 In the garden were the most beautiful flowers , and on the loveliest of them were tied silver bells which tinkled , so that if you passed you could not help looking at the flowers .
19 Everything in the Emperor 's garden was admirably arranged with a view to effect ; and the garden was so large that even the gardener himself did not know where it ended .
20 If you ever got beyond it , you came to a stately forest with great trees and deep lakes in it .
21 The XXXXX sloped down to the sea , which was a clear blue .	forest		Everything|NIGHTINGALE|care|flowers|forest|lakes|spirit|story|world|years

1 He might as well try to catch the wind . '
2 The other replied , ' I do not know , certainly , where she is at present , but in three nights from now she will come to the spring to wash her face , as she does every month when the moon is full , in order that she may never grow old nor wrinkled , but may always keep the bloom of youth . '
3 ` Well , ' said the first bird , ` the spring is not far from here .
4 Shall we go and see how it is she does it ? '
5 ` Willingly , if you like , ' said the other .
6 The youth immediately resolved to follow the birds to the spring , only two things made him uneasy : first , lest he might be asleep when the birds went , and secondly , lest he might lose sight of them , since he had not wings to carry him along so swiftly .
7 He was too tired to keep awake all night , yet his anxiety prevented him from sleeping soundly , and when with the earliest dawn he looked up to the tree-top , he was glad to see his feathered companions still asleep with their heads under their wings .
8 He ate his breakfast , and waited until the birds should start , but they did not leave the place all day .
9 They hopped about from one tree to another looking for food , all day long until the evening , when they went back to their old perch to sleep .
10 The next day the same thing happened , but on the third morning one bird said to the other , ` To-day we must go to the spring to see the Witch-maiden wash her face . '
11 They remained on the tree till noon ; then they flew away and went towards the south .
12 The young man 's heart beat with anxiety lest he should lose sight of his guides , but he managed to keep the birds in view until they again perched upon a tree .
13 The young man ran after them until he was quite exhausted and out of breath , and after three short rests the birds at length reached a small open space in the forest , on the edge of which they placed themselves on the top of a high tree .
14 When the youth had overtaken them , he saw that there was a clear spring in the middle of the space .
15 He sat down at the foot of the tree upon which the birds were perched , and listened attentively to what they were saying to each other .
16 ` The sun is not down yet , ' said the first bird ; ` we must wait yet awhile till the moon rises and the maiden comes to the spring .
17 Do you think she will see that young man sitting under the tree ? '
18 ` Nothing is likely to escape her eyes , certainly not a young man , said the other bird .
19 ` Will the youth have the sense not to let himself be caught in her toils ? '
20 ` We will wait , ' said the first bird , ` and see how they get on together . '
21 The evening light had quite faded , and the full moon was already shining down upon the forest , when the young XXXXX heard a slight rustling sound .	man		Shall|anxiety|companions|dawn|day|maiden|man|moon|sense|tree

1 I think I could , if I only know how to begin . '
2 For , you see , so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately , that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible .
3 There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door , so she went back to the table , half hoping she might find another key on it , or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes : this time she found a little bottle on it , -LRB- ` which certainly was not here before , ' said Alice , -RRB- and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label , with the words ` DRINK ME ' beautifully printed on it in large letters .
4 It was all very well to say ` Drink me , ' but the wise little Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry .
5 ` No , I 'll look first , ' she said , ` and see whether it 's marked `` poison '' or not ' ; for she had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt , and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things , all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them : such as , that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long ; and that if you cut your finger VERY deeply with a knife , it usually bleeds ; and she had never forgotten that , if you drink much from a bottle marked ` poison , ' it is almost certain to disagree with you , sooner or later .
6 However , this bottle was NOT marked ` poison , ' so Alice ventured to taste it , and finding it very nice , -LRB- it had , in fact , a sort of mixed flavour of cherry-tart , custard , pine-apple , roast turkey , toffee , and hot buttered toast , -RRB- she very soon finished it off .
7 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ` What a curious feeling ! '
8 said Alice ; ' I must be shutting up like a telescope . '
9 And so it was indeed : she was now only ten inches high , and her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden .
10 First , however , she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further : she felt a little nervous about this ; ` for it might end , you know , ' said Alice to herself , ` in my going out altogether , like a candle .
11 I wonder what I should be like then ? '
12 And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out , for she could not remember ever having seen such a thing .
13 After a while , finding that nothing more happened , she decided on going into the garden at once ; but , alas for poor Alice !
14 when she got to the door , she found she had forgotten the little golden key , and when she went back to the table for it , she found she could not possibly reach it : she could see it quite plainly through the glass , and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table , but it was too slippery ; and when she had tired herself out with trying , the poor little thing sat down and cried .
15 ` Come , there 's no use in crying like that ! '
16 said Alice to herself , rather sharply ; ' I advise you to leave off this minute ! '
17 She generally gave herself very good advice , -LRB- though she very seldom followed it -RRB- , and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes ; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself , for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people .
18 ` But it 's no use now , ' thought poor Alice , ` to pretend to be two people !
19 Why , there 's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable person ! '
20 Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table : she opened it , and found in it a very small cake , on which the words ` EAT ME ' were beautifully marked in currants .
21 ` Well , I 'll eat it , ' said Alice , ` and if it makes me grow larger , I can reach the key ; and if it makes me grow smaller , I can creep under the door ; so either way I 'll get into the XXXXX , and I do n't care which happens ! '	garden		garden|half|hurry|inches|minute|sort|tears|telescope|thought|use

1 Now the Prince was about to marry another princess , for he thought she was dead long ago .
2 In the evening , when she had washed up and was ready , she felt in her pocket and found the three nuts which the old toad had given her .
3 She cracked one and was going to eat the kernel , when behold !
4 there was a beautiful royal dress inside it !
5 When the bride heard of this , she came and begged for the dress , and wanted to buy it , saying that it was not a dress for a serving-maid .
6 Then she said she would not sell it unless she was granted one favour -- namely , to sleep by the Prince 's door .
7 The bride granted her this , because the dress was so beautiful and she had so few like it .
8 When it was evening she said to her bridegroom , ` That stupid maid wants to sleep by your door . '
9 ` If you are contented , I am , ' he said .
10 But she gave him a glass of wine in which she had poured a sleeping-draught .
11 Then they both went to his room , but he slept so soundly that she could not wake him .
12 The maid wept all night long , and said , ' I freed you in the wild wood out of the iron stove ; I have sought you , and have crossed a glassy mountain , three sharp swords , and a great lake before I found you , and will you not hear me now ? '
13 The servants outside heard how she cried the whole night , and they told their master in the morning .
14 When she had washed up the next evening she bit the second nut , and there was a still more beautiful dress inside .
15 When the bride saw it she wanted to buy it also .
16 But the maid did not want money , and asked that she should sleep again by the Prince 's door .
17 The bride , however , gave him a sleeping-draught , and he slept so soundly that he heard nothing .
18 But the kitchen-maid wept the whole night long , and said , ' I have freed you in a wood and from an iron stove ; I sought you and have crossed a glassy mountain , three sharp swords , and a great lake to find you , and now you will not hear me ! '
19 The servants outside heard how she cried the whole night , and in the morning they told their master .
20 And when she had washed up on the third night she bit the third nut , and there was a still more beautiful dress inside that was made of pure gold .
21 When the bride saw it she wanted to have it , but the maid would only give it her on condition that she should sleep for the third time by the Prince 's XXXXX .	door		behold|door|evening|favour|maid|nothing|nut|pocket|princess|servants

1 It was surely no harm to run away from a place where you were treated so bad and where they did not seem to want you .
2 Chester felt bitter whenever he thought of Aunt Harriet .
3 Presently he found himself in the market square of Montrose .
4 It was market day , and the place was thronged with people from the surrounding country settlements .
5 Chester had hoped that he might pick up a few cents , holding a horse or cow for somebody or carrying a market basket , but no such chance offered itself .
6 He climbed up on some bales of pressed hay in one corner and sat there moodily ; there was dejection in the very dangle of his legs over the bales .
7 Chester , you see , was discovering what many a boy before him has discovered -- that it is a good deal easier to sit down and make a fortune in dreams than it is to go out into the world and make it .
8 Two men were talking to each other near him .
9 At first Chester gave no heed to their conversation , but presently a sentence made him prick up his ears .
10 `` Yes , there 's a pretty fair crop out at Hopedale , '' one man was saying , `` but whether it 's going to be got in in good shape is another matter .
11 It 's terrible hard to get any help .
12 Every spare man-jack far and wide has gone West on them everlasting harvest excursions .
13 Salome Whitney at the Mount Hope Farm is in a predicament .
14 She 's got a hired man , but he ca n't harvest grain all by himself .
15 She spent the whole of yesterday driving around , trying to get a couple of men or boys to help him , but I dunno if she got anyone or not . ''
16 The men moved out of earshot at this juncture , but Chester got down from the bales with a determined look .
17 If workers were wanted in Hopedale , that was the place for him .
18 He had done a man 's work at harvest time in Upton the year before .
19 Lige Barton had said so himself .
20 Hope and courage returned with a rush .
21 He accosted the first XXXXX he met and asked if he could tell him the way to Hopedale .	man		boy|conversation|crop|grain|harm|help|look|man|rush|workers

1 Take off your clothes and spread them on the path which leads from here to the castle .
2 The King will then glide over something soft , which he likes very much , and he will be so pleased with that that he will not devour you .
3 He will give you some punishment , but then he will let you go . '
4 The men did as the Lake advised them , and waited for a time .
5 At noon the earth began to quake , and opened in many places , and out of the openings appeared lions , tigers , and other wild beasts , which surrounded the castle , and thousands and thousands of beasts came out of the castle following their king , the Seven-headed Serpent .
6 The Serpent glided over the clothes which were spread for him , came to the Lake , and asked it who had strewed those soft things on the path ?
7 The Lake answered that it had been done by people who had come to do him homage .
8 The King commanded that the men should be brought before him .
9 They came humbly on their knees , and in a few words told him their story .
10 Then he spoke to them with a mighty and terrible voice , and said , ` Because you have dared to come here , I lay upon you the punishment .
11 Every year you must bring me from among your people twelve youths and twelve maidens , that I may devour them .
12 If you do not do this , I will destroy your whole nation . '
13 Then he desired one of his beasts to show the men the way out of the garden , and dismissed them .
14 They then left the island and went back to their own country , where they related what had happened to them .
15 Soon the time came round when the king of the beasts would expect the youths and maidens to be brought to him .
16 The King therefore issued a proclamation inviting twelve youths and twelve maidens to offer themselves up to save their country ; and immediately many young people , far more than enough , hastened to do so .
17 A new ship was built , and set with black sails , and in it the youths and maidens who were appointed for the king of the beasts embarked and set out for his country .
18 When they arrived there they went at once to the Lake , and this time the lions did not stir , nor did the springs flow , and neither did the Lake speak .
19 So they waited then , and it was not long before the earth quaked even more terribly than the first time .
20 The Seven-headed Serpent came without his train of beasts , saw his prey waiting for him , and devoured it at one mouthful .
21 Then the XXXXX 's crew returned home , and the same thing happened yearly until many years had passed .	ship		Serpent|beasts|country|earth|maidens|punishment|ship|story|voice|words

1 When the miller heard how friendly her tone was , he plucked up heart and told her how rich and prosperous he had been all his life up till now , when he did n't know what he was to do for want and misery .
2 Then the nixy spoke comforting words to him , and promised that she would make him richer and more prosperous than he had ever been in his life before , if he would give her in return the youngest thing in his house .
3 The miller thought she must mean one of his puppies or kittens , so promised the nixy at once what she asked , and returned to his mill full of hope .
4 On the threshold he was greeted by a servant with the news that his wife had just given birth to a boy .
5 The poor miller was much horrified by these tidings , and went in to his wife with a heavy heart to tell her and his relations of the fatal bargain he had just struck with the nixy . '
6 I would gladly give up all the good fortune she promised me , ' he said , ` if I could only save my child . '
7 But no one could think of any advice to give him , beyond taking care that the child never went near the mill-pond .
8 So the boy throve and grew big , and in the meantime all prospered with the miller , and in a few years he was richer than he had ever been before .
9 But all the same he did not enjoy his good fortune , for he could not forget his compact with the nixy , and he knew that sooner or later she would demand his fulfilment of it .
10 But year after year went by , and the boy grew up and became a great hunter , and the lord of the land took him into his service , for he was as smart and bold a hunter as you would wish to see .
11 In a short time he married a pretty young wife , and lived with her in great peace and happiness .
12 One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field .
13 The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
14 Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid .
15 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
16 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves .
17 When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew very anxious , and when his game bag was found close to the mill-pond she guessed at once what had befallen him .
18 She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing .
19 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
20 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
21 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the XXXXX 's power to help her .	witch		care|childhood|happiness|morning|peace|round|shot|waves|witch|words

1 But this time he was not alone , and he had not to make his path .
2 That was made already , six feet wide , in front of him , where the bent jungle-grass was trying to recover itself and stand up .
3 Many elephants must have gone that way only a few minutes before .
4 Little Toomai looked back , and behind him a great wild tusker with his little pig 's eyes glowing like hot coals was just lifting himself out of the misty river .
5 Then the trees closed up again , and they went on and up , with trumpetings and crashings , and the sound of breaking branches on every side of them .
6 At last Kala Nag stood still between two tree-trunks at the very top of the hill .
7 They were part of a circle of trees that grew round an irregular space of some three or four acres , and in all that space , as Little Toomai could see , the ground had been trampled down as hard as a brick floor .
8 Some trees grew in the center of the clearing , but their bark was rubbed away , and the white wood beneath showed all shiny and polished in the patches of moonlight .
9 There were creepers hanging from the upper branches , and the bells of the flowers of the creepers , great waxy white things like convolvuluses , hung down fast asleep .
10 But within the limits of the clearing there was not a single blade of green -- nothing but the trampled earth .
11 The moonlight showed it all iron gray , except where some elephants stood upon it , and their shadows were inky black .
12 Little Toomai looked , holding his breath , with his eyes starting out of his head , and as he looked , more and more and more elephants swung out into the open from between the tree trunks .
13 Little Toomai could only count up to ten , and he counted again and again on his fingers till he lost count of the tens , and his head began to swim .
14 Outside the clearing he could hear them crashing in the undergrowth as they worked their way up the hillside , but as soon as they were within the circle of the tree trunks they moved like ghosts .
15 There were white-tusked wild males , with fallen leaves and nuts and twigs lying in the wrinkles of their necks and the folds of their ears ; fat , slow-footed she-elephants , with restless , little pinky black calves only three or four feet high running under their stomachs ; young elephants with their tusks just beginning to show , and very proud of them ; lanky , scraggy old-maid elephants , with their hollow anxious faces , and trunks like rough bark ; savage old bull elephants , scarred from shoulder to flank with great weals and cuts of bygone fights , and the caked dirt of their solitary mud baths dropping from their shoulders ; and there was one with a broken tusk and the marks of the full-stroke , the terrible drawing scrape , of a tiger 's claws on his side .
16 They were standing head to head , or walking to and fro across the ground in couples , or rocking and swaying all by themselves -- scores and scores of elephants .
17 Toomai knew that so long as he lay still on Kala Nag 's neck nothing would happen to him , for even in the rush and scramble of a Keddah drive a wild elephant does not reach up with his trunk and drag a man off the neck of a tame elephant .
18 And these elephants were not thinking of men that night .
19 Once they started and put their ears forward when they heard the chinking of a leg iron in the forest , but it was Pudmini , Petersen Sahib 's pet elephant , her chain snapped short off , grunting , snuffling up the hillside .
20 She must have broken her pickets and come straight from Petersen Sahib 's camp ; and Little Toomai saw another elephant , one that he did not know , with deep rope galls on his back and breast .
21 He , too , must have run away from some XXXXX in the hills about .	camp		breast|calves|camp|circle|ears|fat|hill|nothing|part|things

1 The second girl handed him the sword , but though he tried with all his strength he could not lift it .
2 At last a third sister came to him and gave him a drop of something to drink , which she said would give him the needful strength .
3 He drank one drop , but still he could not lift the sword ; then he drank a second , and the sword began to move ; but only after he had drunk a third drop was he able to swing the sword over his head .
4 Then he hid himself in the castle and awaited the old witch 's arrival .
5 At last as it was beginning to grow dark she appeared .
6 She swooped down upon a big apple-tree , and after shaking some golden apples from it , she pounced down upon the earth .
7 As soon as her feet touched the ground she became transformed from a hawk into a woman .
8 This was the moment the youth was waiting for , and he swung his mighty sword in the air with all his strength and the witch 's head fell off , and her blood spurted up on the walls .
9 Without fear of any further danger , he packed up all the treasures of the castle into great chests , and gave his brothers a signal to pull them up out of the abyss .
10 First the treasures were attached to the rope and then the three lovely girls .
11 And now everything was up above and only he himself remained below .
12 But as he was a little suspicious of his brothers , he fastened a heavy stone on to the rope and let them pull it up .
13 At first they heaved with a will , but when the stone was half way up they let it drop suddenly , and it fell to the bottom broken into a hundred pieces .
14 ` So that 's what would have happened to my bones had I trusted myself to them , ' said the youth sadly ; and he began to cry bitterly , not because of the treasures , but because of the lovely girl with her swanlike neck and golden hair .
15 For a long time he wandered sadly all through the beautiful underworld , and one day he met a magician who asked him the cause of his tears .
16 The youth told him all that had befallen him , and the magician said : ` Do not grieve , young man !
17 If you will guard the children who are hidden in the golden apple-tree , I will bring you at once up to the earth .
18 Another magician who lives in this land always eats my children up .
19 It is in vain that I have hidden them under the earth and locked them into the castle .
20 Now I have hidden them in the apple-tree ; hide yourself there too , and at midnight you will see my enemy . '
21 The youth climbed up the tree , and picked some of the beautiful golden XXXXX , which he ate for his supper .	apples		air|apples|castle|cause|fear|feet|moment|tears|walls|youth

1 ` Then you should say what you mean , ' the March Hare went on . '
2 I do , ' Alice hastily replied ; ` at least -- at least I mean what I say -- that 's the same thing , you know . '
3 ` Not the same thing a bit ! '
4 said the Hatter .
5 ` You might just as well say that `` I see what I eat '' is the same thing as `` I eat what I see '' ! '
6 ` You might just as well say , ' added the March Hare , ` that `` I like what I get '' is the same thing as `` I get what I like '' ! '
7 ` You might just as well say , ' added the Dormouse , who seemed to be talking in his sleep , ` that `` I breathe when I sleep '' is the same thing as `` I sleep when I breathe '' ! '
8 ` It IS the same thing with you , ' said the Hatter , and here the conversation dropped , and the party sat silent for a minute , while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks , which was n't much .
9 The Hatter was the first to break the silence .
10 ` What day of the month is it ? '
11 he said , turning to Alice : he had taken his watch out of his pocket , and was looking at it uneasily , shaking it every now and then , and holding it to his ear .
12 Alice considered a little , and then said ` The fourth . '
13 ` Two days wrong ! '
14 sighed the Hatter . '
15 I told you butter would n't suit the works ! '
16 he added looking angrily at the March Hare .
17 ` It was the BEST butter , ' the March Hare meekly replied .
18 ` Yes , but some crumbs must have got in as well , ' the Hatter grumbled : ` you should n't have put it in with the bread-knife . '
19 The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily : then he dipped it into his cup of tea , and looked at it again : but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark , ` It was the BEST butter , you know . '
20 Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity .
21 ` What a funny XXXXX ! '	watch		bit|butter|conversation|curiosity|month|party|silence|sleep|thing|watch

1 Heavens !
2 what a heap of gold there was !
3 With all that he could buy up the whole town , and all the sugar pigs , all the tin soldiers , whips and rocking-horses in the whole world .
4 Now he threw away all the silver with which he had filled his pockets and knapsack , and filled them with gold instead -- yes , all his pockets , his knapsack , cap and boots even , so that he could hardly walk .
5 Now he was rich indeed .
6 He put the dog back upon the chest , shut the door , and then called up through the tree : ` Now pull me up again , old Witch ! '
7 ` Have you got the tinder-box also ? '
8 asked the Witch .
9 ` Botheration ! '
10 said the Soldier , ' I had clean forgotten it ! '
11 And then he went back and fetched it .
12 The Witch pulled him up , and there he stood again on the high road , with pockets , knapsack , cap and boots filled with gold .
13 ` What do you want to do with the tinder-box ? '
14 asked the Soldier .
15 ` That does n't matter to you , ' replied the Witch .
16 ` You have got your money , give me my tinder-box . '
17 ` We 'll see ! '
18 said the Soldier .
19 ` Tell me at once what you want to do with it , or I will draw my sword , and cut off your head ! '
20 ` No ! '
21 screamed the XXXXX .	Witch		Heavens|Witch|cap|door|gold|head|pockets|silver|town|tree

1 I brought you up with grief and pain , And now before my eyes you 're slain .
2 I gave you always of the best ; I kept you warm in my soft nest .
3 I loved and watched you day and night -- You were my joy , my one delight . '
4 The King heard the sad complaint of the White Duck , and called to the witch : ` Wife , what a wonder is this ?
5 Listen to that White Duck . '
6 But the witch answered , ` My dear husband , what do you mean ?
7 There is nothing wonderful in a duck 's quacking .
8 Here , servants !
9 Chase that duck out of the courtyard . '
10 But though the servants chased and chevied , they could not get rid of the duck ; for she circled round and round , and always came back to the spot where her children lay , crying : ` Quack , quack -- my little loves !
11 Quack , quack -- my turtle-doves !
12 The wicked witch your lives did take -- The wicked witch , the cunning snake .
13 First she stole my King away , Then my children did she slay .
14 Changed me , from a happy wife , To a duck for all my life .
15 Would I were the Queen again ; Would that you had never been slain . '
16 And as the King heard her words he began to suspect that he had been deceived , and he called out to the servants , ` Catch that duck , and bring it here . '
17 But , though they ran to and fro , the duck always fled past them , and would not let herself be caught .
18 So the King himself stepped down amongst them , and instantly the duck fluttered down into his hands .
19 And as he stroked her wings she was changed into a beautiful woman , and he recognised his dear wife .
20 And she told him that a bottle would be found in her nest in the garden , containing some drops from the spring of healing .
21 And it was brought to her ; and the ducklings and little drake were sprinkled with the water , and from the little dead bodies three lovely XXXXX arose .	children		children|drops|duck|grief|joy|nest|servants|snake|wife|witch

1 I believe he is mad ! '
2 said the Princess , and then she went on ; but she had only gone a few steps when she stopped .
3 ` One ought to encourage art , ' she said . '
4 I am the Emperor 's daughter !
5 Tell him he shall have , as before , ten kisses ; the rest he can take from my ladies-in-waiting . '
6 ` But we do n't at all like being kissed by him , ' said the ladies-in-waiting .
7 ` That 's nonsense , ' said the Princess ; ` and if I can kiss him , you can too .
8 Besides , remember that I give you board and lodging . '
9 So the ladies-in-waiting had to go down to him again . '
10 A hundred kisses from the Princess , ' said he , ` or each keeps his own . '
11 ` Put yourselves in front of us , ' she said then ; and so all the ladies-in-waiting put themselves in front , and he began to kiss the Princess .
12 ` What can that commotion be by the pigsties ? '
13 asked the Emperor , who was standing on the balcony .
14 He rubbed his eyes and put on his spectacles .
15 ` Why those are the ladies-in-waiting playing their games ; I must go down to them . '
16 So he took off his shoes , which were shoes though he had trodden them down into slippers .
17 What a hurry he was in , to be sure !
18 As soon as he came into the yard he walked very softly , and the ladies-in-waiting were so busy counting the kisses and seeing fair play that they never noticed the Emperor .
19 He stood on tiptoe .
20 ` What is that ? '
21 he said , when he saw the kissing ; and then he threw one of his XXXXX at their heads just as the Swineherd was taking his eighty-sixth kiss .	slippers		art|commotion|games|hurry|lodging|nonsense|rest|shoes|slippers|steps

1 Now , the Soldier went down again to his beautiful rooms , and appeared once more in splendid clothes .
2 All his friends immediately recognised him again , and paid him great court .
3 One day he thought to himself : ` It is very strange that no one can get to see the Princess .
4 They all say she is very pretty , but what 's the use of that if she has to sit for ever in the great copper castle with all the towers ?
5 Can I not manage to see her somehow ?
6 Where is my tinder-box ? '
7 and so he struck a spark , and , presto !
8 there came the dog with eyes as large as saucers .
9 ` It is the middle of the night , I know , ' said the Soldier ; ` but I should very much like to see the Princess for a moment . '
10 The dog was already outside the door , and before the Soldier could look round , in he came with the Princess .
11 She was lying asleep on the dog 's back , and was so beautiful that anyone could see she was a real Princess .
12 The Soldier really could not refrain from kissing her -- he was such a thorough Soldier .
13 Then the dog ran back with the Princess .
14 But when it was morning , and the King and Queen were drinking tea , the Princess said that the night before she had had such a strange dream about a dog and a Soldier : she had ridden on the dog 's back , and the Soldier had kissed her .
15 ` That is certainly a fine story , ' said the Queen .
16 But the next night one of the ladies-in-waiting was to watch at the Princess 's bed , to see if it was only a dream , or if it had actually happened .
17 The Soldier had an overpowering longing to see the Princess again , and so the dog came in the middle of the night and fetched her , running as fast as he could .
18 But the lady-in-waiting slipped on india-rubber shoes and followed them .
19 When she saw them disappear into a large house , she thought to herself : ` Now I know where it is ; ` and made a great cross on the door with a piece of chalk .
20 Then she went home and lay down , and the dog came back also , with the Princess .
21 But when he saw that a cross had been made on the door of the XXXXX where the Soldier lived , he took a piece of chalk also , and made crosses on all the doors in the town ; and that was very clever , for now the lady-in-waiting could not find the right house , as there were crosses on all the doors .	house		anyone|bed|court|cross|dog|door|house|moment|night|one

1 But when the doors were opened , there stood all Six , alive and well , saying they were glad they could come out to warm themselves , for the great cold in the room had frozen all the food hard in the dishes .
2 Then the King went angrily to the cook , and scolded him , and asked him why he had not done what he was told .
3 But the cook answered , ` There is heat enough there ; see for yourself . '
4 Then the King saw a huge fire burning under the iron room , and understood that he could do no harm to the Six in this way .
5 The King now began again to think how he could free himself from his unwelcome guests .
6 He commanded the master to come before him , and said , ` If you will take gold , and give up your right to my daughter , you shall have as much as you like . '
7 ` Oh , yes , your Majesty , ' answered he , ` give me as much as my servant can carry , and I will give up your daughter . '
8 The King was delighted , and the man said , ' I will come and fetch it in fourteen days . '
9 Then he called all the tailors in the kingdom together , and made them sit down for fourteen days sewing at a sack .
10 When it was finished , he made the strong man who had uprooted the trees take the sack on his shoulder and go with him to the King .
11 Then the King said , ` What a powerful fellow that is , carrying that bale of linen as large as a house on his shoulder ! '
12 and he was much frightened , and thought ` What a lot of gold he will make away with ! '
13 Then he had a ton of gold brought , which sixteen of the strongest men had to carry ; but the strong man seized it with one hand , put it in the sack , saying , ` Why do n't you bring me more ?
14 That scarcely covers the bottom ! '
15 Then the King had to send again and again to fetch his treasures , which the strong man shoved into the sack , and the sack was only half full .
16 ` Bring more , ' he cried , ` these crumbs do n't fill it . '
17 So seven thousand waggons of the gold of the whole kingdom were driven up ; these the strong man shoved into the sack , oxen and all . '
18 I will no longer be particular , ' he said , ` and will take what comes , so that the sack shall be full . '
19 When everything was put in and there was not yet enough , he said , ' I will make an end of this ; it is easy to fasten a sack when it is not full . '
20 Then he threw it on his back and went with his companions .
21 Now , when the King saw how a single man was carrying away the wealth of the whole country he was very angry , and made his cavalry mount and pursue the Six , and bring back the strong man with the XXXXX .	sack		dishes|doors|fellow|gold|guests|heat|kingdom|master|oxen|sack

1 Why , I 've heard that woman say there was no God .
2 It 's a fact , Mr. Telford -- I have .
3 Some of our ministers has tried to visit her .
4 They did n't try it more than once .
5 The last one -- he was about your heft -- he got a scare , I tell you .
6 Min just caught him by the shoulder and shook him like a rat !
7 Did n't see it myself but Mrs. Rawlings did .
8 Ye ought to hear her describin ' of it . ''
9 Galletly chuckled over the recollection , his wicked little eyes glistening with delight .
10 Telford was thankful when they reached the store .
11 He felt that he could not endure this man 's society any longer .
12 Nevertheless , he felt strangely interested .
13 This Min Palmer must at least be different from the rest of the Cornerites , if only in the greater force of her wickedness .
14 He almost felt as if her sins on the grand scale were less blameworthy than the petty vices of her censorious neighbours .
15 Galletly eagerly joined the group of loungers on the dirty wet platform , and Telford passed into the store .
16 A couple of slatternly women were talking to Mrs. Rykman about `` the Palmer row . ''
17 Telford made his small purchases hastily .
18 As he turned from the counter , he came face to face with a woman who had paused in the doorway to survey the scene with an air of sullen scorn .
19 By some subtle intuition Telford knew that this was Min Palmer .
20 The young man 's first feeling was one of admiration for the woman before him , who , in spite of her grotesque attire and defiant , unwomanly air , was strikingly beautiful .
21 She was tall , and not even the XXXXX 's ragged overcoat which she wore could conceal the grace of her figure .	man		Mr.|admiration|couple|intuition|man|ministers|platform|shoulder|spite|women

1 He was too tired to go any farther , when happily he discovered a little way off a bubbling fountain of the clearest water .
2 Being an experienced traveller , he drew from his pocket a little cup -LRB- without which no one should ever take a journey -RRB- , and was just about to dip it in the water , when a lovely little green frog , much prettier than frogs generally are , jumped into the cup .
3 Far from admiring its beauty , Saphir shook it impatiently off ; but it was no good , for quick as lightning the frog jumped back again .
4 Saphir , who was raging with thirst , was just about to shake it off anew , when the little creature fixed upon him the most beautiful eyes in the world , and said , ' I am a friend of the bird you are seeking , and when you have quenched your thirst listen to me . '
5 So the Prince drank his fill , and then , by the command of the Little Green Frog , he lay down on the grass to rest himself .
6 ` Now , ' she began , ` be sure you do exactly in every respect what I tell you .
7 First you must call together your attendants , and order them to remain in a little hamlet close by until you want them .
8 Then go , quite alone , down a road that you will find on your right hand , looking southwards .
9 This road is planted all the way with cedars of Lebanon ; and after going down it a long way you will come at last to a magnificent castle .
10 And now , ' she went on , ` attend carefully to what I am going to say .
11 Take this tiny grain of sand , and put it into the ground as close as you can to the gate of the castle .
12 It has the virtue both of opening the gate and also of sending to sleep all the inhabitants .
13 Then go at once to the stable , and pay no heed to anything except what I tell you .
14 Choose the handsomest of all the horses , leap quickly on its back , and come to me as fast as you can .
15 Farewell , Prince ; I wish you good luck , ' and with these words the Little Frog plunged into the water and disappeared .
16 The Prince , who felt more hopeful than he had done since he left home , did precisely as he had been ordered .
17 He left his attendants in the hamlet , found the road the frog had described to him , and followed it all alone , and at last he arrived at the gate of the castle , which was even more splendid than he had expected , for it was built of crystal , and all its ornaments were of massive gold .
18 However , he had no thoughts to spare for its beauty , and quickly buried his grain of sand in the earth .
19 In one instant the gates flew open , and all the dwellers inside fell sound asleep .
20 Saphir flew straight to the stable , and already had his hand on the finest horse it contained , when his eye was caught by a suit of magnificent harness hanging up close by .
21 It occurred to him directly that the XXXXX belonged to the horse , and without ever thinking of harm -LRB- for indeed he who steals a horse can hardly be blamed for taking his saddle -RRB- , he hastily placed it on the animal 's back .	harness		command|crystal|cup|frogs|gate|harness|respect|road|virtue|water

1 THE STORY OF KING FROST -LRB- 26 -RRB- -LRB- 26 -RRB- From the Russian .
2 There was once upon a time a peasant-woman who had a daughter and a step-daughter .
3 The daughter had her own way in everything , and whatever she did was right in her mother 's eyes ; but the poor step-daughter had a hard time .
4 Let her do what she would , she was always blamed , and got small thanks for all the trouble she took ; nothing was right , everything wrong ; and yet , if the truth were known , the girl was worth her weight in gold -- she was so unselfish and good-hearted .
5 But her step-mother did not like her , and the poor girl 's days were spent in weeping ; for it was impossible to live peacefully with the woman .
6 The wicked shrew was determined to get rid of the girl by fair means or foul , and kept saying to her father : ` Send her away , old man ; send her away -- anywhere so that my eyes sha 'n' t be plagued any longer by the sight of her , or my ears tormented by the sound of her voice .
7 Send her out into the fields , and let the cutting frost do for her . '
8 In vain did the poor old father weep and implore her pity ; she was firm , and he dared not gainsay her .
9 So he placed his daughter in a sledge , not even daring to give her a horse-cloth to keep herself warm with , and drove her out on to the bare , open fields , where he kissed her and left her , driving home as fast as he could , that he might not witness her miserable death .
10 Deserted by her father , the poor girl sat down under a fir-tree at the edge of the forest and began to weep silently .
11 Suddenly she heard a faint sound : it was King Frost springing from tree to tree , and cracking his fingers as he went .
12 At length he reached the fir-tree beneath which she was sitting , and with a crisp crackling sound he alighted beside her , and looked at her lovely face .
13 ` Well , maiden , ' he snapped out , ` do you know who I am ?
14 I am King Frost , king of the red-noses . '
15 ` All hail to you , great King ! '
16 answered the girl , in a gentle , trembling voice .
17 ` Have you come to take me ? '
18 ` Are you warm , maiden ? '
19 he replied .
20 ` Quite warm , King Frost , ' she answered , though she shivered as she spoke .
21 Then King Frost stooped down , and bent over the girl , and the crackling XXXXX grew louder , and the air seemed to be full of knives and darts ; and again he asked : ` Maiden , are you warm ?	sound		death|edge|everything|eyes|girl|hail|king|maiden|man|sound

1 She felt as though she should certainly expire , and it was with some difficulty that she dragged herself as far as a pretty little green and white house , which stood at no great distance .
2 Here she was received by a beautiful lady dressed in green and white to match the house , which apparently belonged to her , and of which she seemed the only inhabitant .
3 She greeted the fainting Princess most kindly , gave her an excellent supper , and after a long night 's rest in a delightful bed told her that after many troubles she should finally attain her desire .
4 As the green and white lady took leave of the Princess she gave her a nut , desiring her only to open it in the most urgent need .
5 After a long and tiring journey Fairer-than-a-Fairy was once more received in a house , and by a lady exactly like the one she had quitted .
6 Here again she received a present with the same injunctions , but instead of a nut this lady gave her a golden pomegranate .
7 The mournful Princess had to continue her weary way , and after many troubles and hardships she again found rest and shelter in a third house exactly similar to the two others .
8 These houses belonged to three sisters , all endowed with fairy gifts , and all so alike in mind and person that they wished their houses and garments to be equally alike .
9 Their occupation consisted in helping those in misfortune , and they were as gentle and benevolent as Lagree had been cruel and spiteful .
10 The third Fairy comforted the poor traveller , begged her not to lose heart , and assured her that her troubles should be rewarded .
11 She accompanied her advice by the gift of a crystal smelling-bottle , with strict orders only to open it in case of urgent need .
12 Fairer-than-a-Fairy thanked her warmly , and resumed her way cheered by pleasant thoughts .
13 After a time her road led through a wood , full of soft airs and sweet odours , and before she had gone a hundred yards she saw a wonderful silver Castle suspended by strong silver chains to four of the largest trees .
14 It was so perfectly hung that a gentle breeze rocked it sufficiently to send you pleasantly to sleep .
15 Fairer-than-a-Fairy felt a strong desire to enter this Castle , but besides being hung a little above the ground there seemed to be neither doors nor windows .
16 She had no doubt -LRB- though really I can not think why -RRB- that the moment had come in which to use the nut which had been given her .
17 She opened it , and out came a diminutive hall porter at whose belt hung a tiny chain , at the end of which was a golden key half as long as the smallest pin you ever saw .
18 The Princess climbed up one of the silver chains , holding in her hand the little porter who , in spite of his minute size , opened a secret door with his golden key and let her in .
19 She entered a magnificent room which appeared to occupy the entire Castle , and which was lighted by gold and jewelled stars in the ceiling .
20 In the midst of this room stood a couch , draped with curtains of all the colours of the rainbow , and suspended by golden cords so that it swayed with the Castle in a manner which rocked its occupant delightfully to sleep .
21 On this elegant XXXXX lay Prince Rainbow , looking more beautiful than ever , and sunk in profound slumber , in which he had been held ever since his disappearance .	couch		advice|couch|distance|gift|ground|manner|midst|nut|occupation|sisters

1 ` Well , if that is the case , ' said the manikin , ` sit down beside me ; we can rest for a little and have something to eat .
2 Give me what you have got in your satchel . '
3 Now , the poor Simpleton was ashamed to show what was in it .
4 However , he thought it best not to make a fuss , so he opened the satchel , and could scarcely believe his own eyes , for , instead of the hard crust , he saw two beautiful fresh rolls and some cold meat .
5 He shared them with the manikin , who licked his lips and said : ` Now , go into that wood , and stop in front of the first tree , bow three times , and then strike the tree with your axe , fall on your knees on the ground , with your face on the earth , and remain there till you are raised up .
6 You will then find a ship at your side , step into it and fly to the King 's Palace .
7 If you meet anyone on the way , take him with you . '
8 The Simpleton thanked the manikin very kindly , bade him farewell , and went into the road .
9 When he got to the first tree he stopped in front of it , did everything just as he had been told , and , kneeling on the ground with his face to the earth , fell asleep .
10 After a little time he was aroused ; he awoke and , rubbing his eyes , saw a ready-made ship at his side , and at once got into it .
11 And the ship rose and rose , and in another minute was flying through the air , when the Simpleton , who was on the look out , cast his eyes down to the earth and saw a man beneath him on the road , who was kneeling with his ear upon the damp ground .
12 ` Hallo ! '
13 he called out , ` what are you doing down there ? ' '
14 I am listening to what is going on in the world , ' replied the man .
15 ` Come with me in my ship , ' said the Simpleton .
16 So the man was only too glad , and got in beside him ; and the ship flew , and flew , and flew through the air , till again from his outlook the Simpleton saw a man on the road below , who was hopping on one leg , while his other leg was tied up behind his ear .
17 So he hailed him , calling out : ` Hallo !
18 what are you doing , hopping on one leg ? ' '
19 I ca n't help it , ' replied the man . '
20 I walk so fast that unless I tied up one leg I should be at the end of the earth in a bound . '
21 ` Come with us on my ship , ' he answered ; and the man made no objections , but joined them ; and the ship flew on , and on , and on , till suddenly the Simpleton , looking down on the road below , beheld a XXXXX aiming with a gun into the distance .	man		ear|earth|knees|leg|look|man|meat|time|tree|wood

1 He determined to be thorough , and he went straight into every place of business he came to , from a blacksmith 's forge to a department store , and boldly asked the first person he met if they wanted a boy there .
2 There was , however , one class of places Chester shunned determinedly .
3 He never went into a liquor saloon .
4 The last winter he had been allowed to go to school in Upton , his teacher had been a pale , patient little woman who hated the liquor traffic with all her heart .
5 She herself had suffered bitterly through it , and she instilled into her pupils a thorough aversion to it .
6 Chester would have chosen death by starvation before he would have sought for employment in a liquor saloon .
7 But there certainly did not seem room for him anywhere else .
8 Nobody wanted a boy .
9 The answer to his question was invariably `` No . ''
10 As the day wore on , Chester 's hopes and courage went down to zero , but he still tramped doggedly about .
11 He would be thorough , at least .
12 Surely somewhere in this big place , where everyone seemed so busy , there must be something for him to do .
13 Once there seemed a chance of success .
14 He had gone into a big provision store and asked the clerk behind the counter if they wanted a boy .
15 `` Well , we do , '' said the clerk , looking him over critically , `` but I hardly think you 'll fill the bill .
16 However , come in and see the boss . ''
17 He took Chester into a dark , grimy little inner office where a fat , stubby man was sitting before a desk with his feet upon it .
18 `` Hey ?
19 What ! ''
20 he said when the clerk explained .
21 `` Looking for the XXXXX ?	place		bill|clerk|day|desk|everyone|office|pale|place|pupils|room

1 `` All that Baloo has said about the Bandar-log is true , '' he thought to himself .
2 `` They have no Law , no Hunting Call , and no leaders -- nothing but foolish words and little picking thievish hands .
3 So if I am starved or killed here , it will be all my own fault .
4 But I must try to return to my own jungle .
5 Baloo will surely beat me , but that is better than chasing silly rose leaves with the Bandar-log . ''
6 No sooner had he walked to the city wall than the monkeys pulled him back , telling him that he did not know how happy he was , and pinching him to make him grateful .
7 He set his teeth and said nothing , but went with the shouting monkeys to a terrace above the red sandstone reservoirs that were half-full of rain water .
8 There was a ruined summer-house of white marble in the center of the terrace , built for queens dead a hundred years ago .
9 The domed roof had half fallen in and blocked up the underground passage from the palace by which the queens used to enter .
10 But the walls were made of screens of marble tracery -- beautiful milk-white fretwork , set with agates and cornelians and jasper and lapis lazuli , and as the moon came up behind the hill it shone through the open work , casting shadows on the ground like black velvet embroidery .
11 Sore , sleepy , and hungry as he was , Mowgli could not help laughing when the Bandar-log began , twenty at a time , to tell him how great and wise and strong and gentle they were , and how foolish he was to wish to leave them .
12 `` We are great .
13 We are free .
14 We are wonderful .
15 We are the most wonderful people in all the jungle !
16 We all say so , and so it must be true , '' they shouted .
17 `` Now as you are a new listener and can carry our words back to the Jungle-People so that they may notice us in future , we will tell you all about our most excellent selves . ''
18 Mowgli made no objection , and the monkeys gathered by hundreds and hundreds on the terrace to listen to their own speakers singing the praises of the Bandar-log , and whenever a speaker stopped for want of breath they would all shout together : `` This is true ; we all say so . ''
19 Mowgli nodded and blinked , and said `` Yes '' when they asked him a question , and his head spun with the noise .
20 `` Tabaqui the Jackal must have bitten all these people , '' he said to himself , `` and now they have madness .
21 Certainly this is dewanee , the XXXXX .	madness		head|madness|marble|objection|palace|queens|question|terrace|words|years

1 So they arrived at last at the little old house , but when they stepped inside it turned into a large castle .
2 The toads were all freed , and were beautiful King 's children , running about for joy .
3 There they were married , and they remained in the castle , which was much larger than that of the Princess 's father 's .
4 But because the old man did not like being left alone , they went and fetched him .
5 So they had two kingdoms and lived in great wealth .
6 A mouse has run , My story 's done .
7 THE DRAGON AND HIS GRANDMOTHER There was once a great war , and the King had a great many soldiers , but he gave them so little pay that they could not live upon it .
8 Then three of them took counsel together and determined to desert .
9 One of them said to the others , ` If we are caught , we shall be hanged on the gallows ; how shall we set about it ? '
10 The other said , ` Do you see that large cornfield there ?
11 If we were to hide ourselves in that , no one could find us .
12 The army can not come into it , and to-morrow it is to march on . '
13 They crept into the corn , but the army did not march on , but remained encamped close around them .
14 They sat for two days and two nights in the corn , and grew so hungry that they nearly died ; but if they were to venture out , it was certain death .
15 They said at last , ` What use was it our deserting ?
16 We must perish here miserably . '
17 Whilst they were speaking a fiery dragon came flying through the air .
18 It hovered near them , and asked why they were hidden there .
19 They answered , ` We are three soldiers , and have deserted because our pay was so small .
20 Now if we remain here we shall die of hunger , and if we move out we shall be strung up on the gallows . '
21 ` If you will serve me for seven years , ' said the dragon , I will lead you through the midst of the army so that no XXXXX shall catch you . '	one		air|army|corn|counsel|dragon|father|kingdoms|one|pay|wealth

1 No matter how impossible it is , he must do it or die . '
2 The eldest answered quickly , ` Let him drive all the wolves of the kingdom on to this hill before to-morrow night .
3 If he does this he may go free ; if not he shall be hung as you have said . '
4 At these words the Princess burst into tears , and when the King saw this he ordered her to be shut up in a high tower and carefully guarded till the dangerous magician should either have left the kingdom or been hung on the nearest tree .
5 Ferko wandered out into the fields again , and sat down on the stump of a tree wondering what he should do next .
6 Suddenly a big wolf ran up to him , and standing still said , ` I 'm very glad to see you again , my kind benefactor .
7 What are you thinking about all alone by yourself ?
8 If I can help you in any way only say the word , for I would like to give you a proof of my gratitude . '
9 Ferko at once recognised the wolf whose broken leg he had healed , and told him what he had to do the following day if he wished to escape with his life .
10 ` But how in the world , ' he added , ` am I to collect all the wolves of the kingdom on to that hill over there ? '
11 ` If that 's all you want done , ' answered the wolf , ` you need n't worry yourself .
12 I 'll undertake the task , and you 'll hear from me again before sunset to-morrow .
13 Keep your spirits up . '
14 And with these words he trotted quickly away .
15 Then the youth rejoiced greatly , for now he felt that his life was safe ; but he grew very sad when he thought of the beautiful Princess , and that he would never see her again if he left the country .
16 He lay down once more on the grass and soon fell fast asleep .
17 All the next day he spent wandering about the fields , and toward evening the wolf came running to him in a great hurry and said , ' I have collected together all the wolves in the kingdom , and they are waiting for you in the wood .
18 Go quickly to the King , and tell him to go to the hill that he may see the wonder you have done with his own eyes .
19 Then return at once to me and get on my back , and I will help you to drive all the wolves together . '
20 Then Ferko went straight to the palace and told the King that he was ready to perform the third task if he would come to the hill and see it done .
21 Ferko himself returned to the fields , and mounting on the wolf 's back he rode to the XXXXX close by .	wood		eyes|fields|grass|stump|task|way|wonder|wood|words|world

1 He was too tired to go any farther , when happily he discovered a little way off a bubbling fountain of the clearest water .
2 Being an experienced traveller , he drew from his pocket a little cup -LRB- without which no one should ever take a journey -RRB- , and was just about to dip it in the water , when a lovely little green frog , much prettier than frogs generally are , jumped into the cup .
3 Far from admiring its beauty , Saphir shook it impatiently off ; but it was no good , for quick as lightning the frog jumped back again .
4 Saphir , who was raging with thirst , was just about to shake it off anew , when the little creature fixed upon him the most beautiful eyes in the world , and said , ' I am a friend of the bird you are seeking , and when you have quenched your thirst listen to me . '
5 So the Prince drank his fill , and then , by the command of the Little Green Frog , he lay down on the grass to rest himself .
6 ` Now , ' she began , ` be sure you do exactly in every respect what I tell you .
7 First you must call together your attendants , and order them to remain in a little hamlet close by until you want them .
8 Then go , quite alone , down a road that you will find on your right hand , looking southwards .
9 This road is planted all the way with cedars of Lebanon ; and after going down it a long way you will come at last to a magnificent castle .
10 And now , ' she went on , ` attend carefully to what I am going to say .
11 Take this tiny grain of sand , and put it into the ground as close as you can to the gate of the castle .
12 It has the virtue both of opening the gate and also of sending to sleep all the inhabitants .
13 Then go at once to the stable , and pay no heed to anything except what I tell you .
14 Choose the handsomest of all the horses , leap quickly on its back , and come to me as fast as you can .
15 Farewell , Prince ; I wish you good luck , ' and with these words the Little Frog plunged into the water and disappeared .
16 The Prince , who felt more hopeful than he had done since he left home , did precisely as he had been ordered .
17 He left his attendants in the hamlet , found the road the frog had described to him , and followed it all alone , and at last he arrived at the gate of the castle , which was even more splendid than he had expected , for it was built of crystal , and all its ornaments were of massive gold .
18 However , he had no thoughts to spare for its beauty , and quickly buried his grain of sand in the earth .
19 In one instant the gates flew open , and all the dwellers inside fell sound asleep .
20 Saphir flew straight to the stable , and already had his hand on the finest horse it contained , when his eye was caught by a suit of magnificent harness hanging up close by .
21 It occurred to him directly that the harness belonged to the horse , and without ever thinking of harm -LRB- for indeed he who steals a XXXXX can hardly be blamed for taking his saddle -RRB- , he hastily placed it on the animal 's back .	horse		anything|friend|hamlet|home|horse|horses|inhabitants|instant|leap|pocket

1 She smiled promptly at him -- a smile that seemed fairly to irradiate her round face -- and then began fumbling in an old-fashioned reticule she carried , and from which she presently extracted a chubby little paper bag .
2 `` If you like candy , little boy , '' she said to Chester , `` here is some of my sugar taffy for you . ''
3 Chester did not exactly like being called a little boy .
4 But her voice and smile were irresistible and won his heart straightway .
5 He took the candy with a shy , `` Thank you , ma'am , '' and sat holding it in his hand .
6 `` Eat it , '' commanded the rosy lady authoritatively .
7 `` That is what taffy is for , you know . ''
8 So Chester ate it .
9 It was the most delicious thing he had ever tasted in his life , and filled a void which even the crackers and cheese had left vacant .
10 The rosy lady watched every mouthful he ate as if she enjoyed it more than he did .
11 When he had finished the taffy she smiled one of her sociable smiles again and said , `` Well , what do you think of it ? ''
12 `` It 's the nicest taffy I ever ate , '' answered Chester enthusiastically , as if he were a connoisseur in all kinds of taffies .
13 The rosy lady nodded , well pleased .
14 `` That is just what everyone says about my sugar taffy .
15 Nobody up our way can match it , though goodness knows they try hard enough .
16 My great-grandmother invented the recipe herself , and it has been in our family ever since .
17 I 'm real glad you liked it . ''
18 She smiled at him again , as if his appreciation of her taffy was a bond of good fellowship between them .
19 She did not know it but , nevertheless , she was filling the heart of a desperate small boy , who had run away from home , with hope and encouragement and self-reliance .
20 If there were such kind folks as this in the world , why , he would get along all right .
21 The rosy lady 's smiles and XXXXX -- the smiles much more than the taffy -- went far to thaw out of him a certain hardness and resentfulness against people in general that Aunt Harriet 's harsh treatment had instilled into him .	taffy		candy|encouragement|family|lady|self-reliance|smiles|taffy|thing|voice|way

1 `` I do n't care -- I do n't care ! ''
2 she moaned , telling the lie aloud to herself , as if she hoped that by this means she would come to believe it .
3 When twilight came she went out to the front steps and leaned her aching head against the honeysuckle trellis .
4 The sun had just set and the whole world swam in dusky golden light .
5 The wonderful beauty frightened her .
6 She felt like a blot on it .
7 While she stood there , a buggy came driving up the lane and wheeled about at the steps .
8 In it was Spencer Morgan .
9 Estella saw him and , in spite of the maddening throb of hope that seemed suddenly to transfigure the world for her , her pride rose in arms .
10 Had Spencer come the night before , he would have found her loving and humble .
11 Even now , had she but been sure that he had come to see her , she would have unbent .
12 But was it the other ?
13 The torturing doubt stung her to the quick .
14 She waited , stubbornly resolved that she would not speak first .
15 It was not in her place .
16 Spencer Morgan flicked his horse sharply with his whip .
17 He dared not look at Estella , but he felt her uncompromising attitude .
18 He was miserably ashamed of himself , and he felt angry at Estella for his shame .
19 `` Do you care to come for a drive ? ''
20 he asked awkwardly , with a covert glance at the parlour windows .
21 Estella caught the XXXXX and her jealous perception instantly divined its true significance .	glance		attitude|beauty|buggy|glance|honeysuckle|lie|place|shame|sun|windows

1 Who knows that he is n't in there still ? '
2 Little Klaus gave the farmer his sack with the dry skin , and got instead a good bushelful of money .
3 The farmer also gave him a wheelbarrow to carry away his money and the chest .
4 ` Farewell , ' said Little Klaus ; and away he went with his money and the big chest , wherein sat the sexton .
5 On the other side of the wood was a large deep river .
6 The water flowed so rapidly that you could scarcely swim against the stream .
7 A great new bridge had been built over it , on the middle of which Little Klaus stopped , and said aloud so that the sexton might hear : ` Now , what am I to do with this stupid chest ?
8 It is as heavy as if it were filled with stones !
9 I shall only be tired , dragging it along ; I will throw it into the river .
10 If it swims home to me , well and good ; and if it does n't , it 's no matter . '
11 Then he took the chest with one hand and lifted it up a little , as if he were going to throw it into the water .
12 ` No , do n't do that ! '
13 called out the sexton in the chest .
14 ` Let me get out first ! '
15 ` Oh , oh ! '
16 said Little Klaus , pretending that he was afraid .
17 ` He is still in there !
18 I must throw him quickly into the water to drown him ! '
19 ` Oh !
20 no , no ! '
21 cried the XXXXX . '	sexton		bridge|farmer|hand|home|money|sack|sexton|side|water|wood

1 The King 's daughter often dreamed that her husband was going through some great suffering : she therefore begged her father to summon all the enchanters and magicians , that they might try to find out where the Prince was and how he could be set free .
2 But the magicians , with all their arts , could find out nothing , except that he was still living and undergoing great suffering ; but none could tell where he was to be found .
3 At last a celebrated magician from Finland was brought before the King , who had found out that the King 's son-in-law was imprisoned in the East , not by men , but by some more powerful being .
4 The King now sent messengers to the East to look for his son-in-law , and they by good luck met with the old magician who had interpreted the signs on King Solomon 's ring , and thus was possessed of more wisdom than anyone else in the world .
5 The magician soon found out what he wished to know , and pointed out the place where the Prince was imprisoned , but said : ` He is kept there by enchantment , and can not be set free without my help .
6 I will therefore go with you myself . '
7 So they all set out , guided by birds , and after some days came to the cave where the unfortunate Prince had been chained up for nearly seven years .
8 He recognised the magician immediately , but the old man did not know him , he had grown so thin .
9 However , he undid the chains by the help of magic , and took care of the Prince until he recovered and became strong enough to travel .
10 When he reached home he found that the old King had died that morning , so that he was now raised to the throne .
11 And now after his long suffering came prosperity , which lasted to the end of his life ; but he never got back the magic ring , nor has it ever again been seen by mortal eyes .
12 Now , if YOU had been the Prince , would you not rather have stayed with the pretty witch-maiden ?
13 STORY OF THE EMPEROR 'S NEW CLOTHES -LRB- 4 -RRB- -LRB- 4 -RRB- Andersen .
14 Many years ago there lived an Emperor who was so fond of new clothes that he spent all his money on them in order to be beautifully dressed .
15 He did not care about his soldiers , he did not care about the theatre ; he only liked to go out walking to show off his new clothes .
16 He had a coat for every hour of the day ; and just as they say of a king , ` He is in the council-chamber , ' they always said here , ` The Emperor is in the wardrobe . '
17 In the great city in which he lived there was always something going on ; every day many strangers came there .
18 One day two impostors arrived who gave themselves out as weavers , and said that they knew how to manufacture the most beautiful cloth imaginable .
19 Not only were the texture and pattern uncommonly beautiful , but the clothes which were made of the stuff possessed this wonderful property that they were invisible to anyone who was not fit for his office , or who was unpardonably stupid .
20 ` Those must indeed be splendid clothes , ' thought the Emperor .
21 ` If I had them on I could find out which XXXXX in my kingdom are unfit for the offices they hold ; I could distinguish the wise from the stupid !	men		clothes|enchantment|husband|men|messengers|none|order|strangers|texture|years

1 The King was so charmed by the Snow-daughter , that he asked her to be his wife .
2 The girl consented , and the wedding was held with much state .
3 The King had a huge house of ice made for his wife underground , so that even in summer it did not melt .
4 But for his brother-in-law he had a house built with huge ovens all round it , that were kept heated all day and night .
5 The Fire-son was delighted , but the perpetual heat in which he lived made his body so hot , that it was dangerous to go too close to him .
6 One day the King gave a great feast , and asked his brother-in-law among the other guests .
7 The Fire-son did not appear till everyone had assembled , and when he did , everyone fled outside to the open air , so intense was the heat he gave forth .
8 Then the King was very angry and said , ` If I had known what a lot of trouble you would have been , I would never have taken you into my house . '
9 Then the Fire-son replied with a laugh , ` Do n't be angry , dear brother !
10 I love heat and my sister loves cold -- come here and let me embrace you , and then I 'll go home at once . '
11 And before the King had time to reply , the Fire-son seized him in a tight embrace .
12 The King screamed aloud in agony , and when his wife , the Snow-daughter , who had taken refuge from her brother in the next room , hurried to him , the King lay dead on the ground burnt to a cinder .
13 When the Snow-daughter saw this she turned on her brother and flew at him .
14 Then a fight began , the like of which had never been seen on earth .
15 When the people , attracted by the noise , hurried to the spot , they saw the Snow-daughter melting into water and the Fire-son burn to a cinder .
16 And so ended the unhappy brother and sister .
17 THE STORY OF KING FROST -LRB- 26 -RRB- -LRB- 26 -RRB- From the Russian .
18 There was once upon a time a peasant-woman who had a daughter and a step-daughter .
19 The daughter had her own way in everything , and whatever she did was right in her mother 's eyes ; but the poor step-daughter had a hard time .
20 Let her do what she would , she was always blamed , and got small thanks for all the trouble she took ; nothing was right , everything wrong ; and yet , if the truth were known , the girl was worth her weight in gold -- she was so unselfish and good-hearted .
21 But her step-mother did not like her , and the poor XXXXX 's days were spent in weeping ; for it was impossible to live peacefully with the woman .	girl		girl|ground|guests|house|refuge|sister|spot|thanks|truth|wife

1 As , since he had been touched by the Giant 's ring , he had the power to live in the water as well as on land , he at once dived into the fountain .
2 He perceived in one corner a door leading into the mountain , and at the foot of the mountain was a high rock on which was fixed an iron ring with a cord attached .
3 The Prince promptly guessed that the cord was used to chain the Princess , and drew his sword and cut it .
4 In a moment he felt the Princess 's hand in his , for she had always kept her magic pebble in her mouth , in spite of the prayers and entreaties of the Prince of the Air to make herself visible .
5 So hand in hand the invisible Prince and Rosalie crossed the mountain ; but as the Princess had no power of living under water , she could not pass the Golden Fountain .
6 Speechless and invisible they clung together on the brink , trembling at the frightful tempest the Prince of the Air had raised in his fury .
7 The storm had already lasted many days when tremendous heat began to make itself felt .
8 The lightning flashed , the thunder rattled , fire bolts fell from heaven , burning up the forests and even the fields of corn .
9 In one instant the very streams were dried up , and the Prince , seizing his opportunity , carried the Princess over the Golden Fountain .
10 It took them a long time still to reach the Golden Isle , but at last they got there , and we may be quite sure they never wanted to leave it any more .
11 THE CROW -LRB- 13 -RRB- -LRB- 13 -RRB- From the Polish .
12 Kletke .
13 Once upon a time there were three Princesses who were all three young and beautiful ; but the youngest , although she was not fairer than the other two , was the most loveable of them all .
14 About half a mile from the palace in which they lived there stood a castle , which was uninhabited and almost a ruin , but the garden which surrounded it was a mass of blooming flowers , and in this garden the youngest Princess used often to walk .
15 One day when she was pacing to and fro under the lime trees , a black crow hopped out of a rose-bush in front of her .
16 The poor beast was all torn and bleeding , and the kind little Princess was quite unhappy about it .
17 When the crow saw this it turned to her and said : ' I am not really a black crow , but an enchanted Prince , who has been doomed to spend his youth in misery .
18 If you only liked , Princess , you could save me .
19 But you would have to say good-bye to all your own people and come and be my constant companion in this ruined castle .
20 There is one habitable room in it , in which there is a golden bed ; there you will have to live all by yourself , and do n't forget that whatever you may see or hear in the night you must not scream out , for if you give as much as a single cry my sufferings will be doubled . '
21 The good-natured Princess at once left her home and her family and hurried to the ruined castle , and took possession of the XXXXX with the golden bed .	room		Air|Giant|bed|castle|garden|mile|moment|ring|room|streams

1 Now , in the middle of the garden there was a pond of water , clear as crystal , and the old woman said to the Queen : ` The day is so warm , and the sun 's rays so scorching , that the water in the pond looks very cool and inviting .
2 Would you not like to bathe in it , fair Queen ? '
3 ` No , I think not , ' answered the Queen ; but the next moment she regretted her words , and thought to herself : Why should n't I bathe in that cool , fresh water ?
4 No harm could come of it .
5 And , so saying , she slipped off her robes and stepped into the water .
6 But scarcely had her tender feet touched the cool ripples when she felt a great shove on her shoulders , and the wicked witch had pushed her into the deep water , exclaiming : ` Swim henceforth , White Duck ! '
7 And the witch herself assumed the form of the Queen , and decked herself out in the royal robes , and sat among the Court ladies , awaiting the King 's return .
8 And suddenly the tramp of horses ' hoofs was heard , and the barking of dogs , and the witch hastened forward to meet the royal carriages , and , throwing her arms round the King 's neck , kissed him .
9 And in his great joy the King did not know that the woman he held in his arms was not his own dear wife , but a wicked witch .
10 In the meantime , outside the palace walls , the poor White Duck swam up and down the pond ; and near it laid three eggs , out of which there came one morning two little fluffy ducklings and a little ugly drake .
11 And the White Duck brought the little creatures up , and they paddled after her in the pond , and caught gold-fish , and hopped upon the bank and waddled about , ruffling their feathers and saying ` Quack , quack ' as they strutted about on the green banks of the pond .
12 But their mother used to warn them not to stray too far , telling them that a wicked witch lived in the castle beyond the garden , adding , ` She has ruined me , and she will do her best to ruin you . '
13 But the young ones did not listen to their mother , and , playing about the garden one day , they strayed close up to the castle windows .
14 The witch at once recognised them by their smell , and ground her teeth with anger ; but she hid her feelings , and , pretending to be very kind she called them to her and joked with them , and led them into a beautiful room , where she gave them food to eat , and showed them a soft cushion on which they might sleep .
15 Then she left them and went down into the palace kitchens , where she told the servants to sharpen the knives , and to make a great fire ready , and hang a large kettleful of water over it .
16 In the meantime the two little ducklings had fallen asleep , and the little drake lay between them , covered up by their wings , to be kept warm under their feathers .
17 But the little drake could not go to sleep , and as he lay there wide awake in the night he heard the witch come to the door and say : ` Little ones , are you asleep ? '
18 And the little drake answered for the other two : ` We can not sleep , we wake and weep , Sharp is the knife , to take our life ; The fire is hot , now boils the pot , And so we wake , and lie and quake . '
19 ` They are not asleep yet , ' muttered the witch to herself ; and she walked up and down in the passage , and then came back to the door , and said : ` Little ones , are you asleep ? '
20 And again the little drake answered for his sisters : ` We can not sleep , we wake and weep , Sharp is the knife , to take our life ; The fire is hot , now boils the pot , And so we wake , and lie and quake . '
21 ` Just the same answer , ' muttered the XXXXX ; ' I think I 'll go in and see . '	witch		form|harm|joy|life|mother|ones|pot|water|weep|witch

1 He would so much like to smoke a small pipe of tobacco ; it would be his last pipe in this world .
2 The King could not refuse him this , and so he took out his tinder-box , and rubbed it once , twice , three times .
3 And lo , and behold I there stood all three dogs -- the one with eyes as large as saucers , the second with eyes as large as mill-wheels , and the third with eyes each as large as the Round Tower of Copenhagen .
4 ` Help me now , so that I may not be hanged ! '
5 cried the Soldier .
6 And thereupon the dogs fell upon the judges and the whole council , seized some by the legs , others by the nose , and threw them so high into the air that they fell and were smashed into pieces . '
7 I wo n't stand this ! '
8 said the King ; but the largest dog seized him too , and the Queen as well , and threw them up after the others .
9 This frightened the soldiers , and all the people cried : ` Good Soldier , you shall be our King , and marry the beautiful Princess ! '
10 Then they put the Soldier into the King 's coach , and the three dogs danced in front , crying ` Hurrah ! '
11 And the boys whistled and the soldiers presented arms .
12 The Princess came out of the copper castle , and became Queen ; and that pleased her very much .
13 The wedding festivities lasted for eight days , and the dogs sat at table and made eyes at everyone .
14 THE WITCH IN THE STONE BOAT -LRB- 31 -RRB- -LRB- 31 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
15 There were once a King and a Queen , and they had a son called Sigurd , who was very strong and active , and good-looking .
16 When the King came to be bowed down with the weight of years he spoke to his son , and said that now it was time for him to look out for a fitting match for himself , for he did not know how long he might last now , and he would like to see him married before he died .
17 Sigurd was not averse to this , and asked his father where he thought it best to look for a wife .
18 The King answered that in a certain country there was a King who had a beautiful daughter , and he thought it would be most desirable if Sigurd could get her .
19 So the two parted , and Sigurd prepared for the journey , and went to where his father had directed him .
20 He came to the King and asked his daughter 's hand , which he readily granted him , but only on the condition that he should remain there as long as he could , for the King himself was not strong and not very able to govern his kingdom .
21 Sigurd accepted this condition , but added that he would have to get leave to go home again to his own country when he heard news of his XXXXX 's death .	father		council|country|father|hand|others|people|saucers|times|weight|wife

1 So I sit at my ease , as befits a mahout , -- not a mere hunter , -- a mahout , I say , and a man who gets a pension at the end of his service .
2 Is the family of Toomai of the Elephants to be trodden underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah ?
3 Bad one !
4 Wicked one !
5 Worthless son !
6 Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ears , and see that there are no thorns in his feet .
7 Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild hunter -- a follower of elephant 's foot tracks , a jungle bear .
8 Bah !
9 Shame !
10 Go ! ''
11 Little Toomai went off without saying a word , but he told Kala Nag all his grievances while he was examining his feet .
12 `` No matter , '' said Little Toomai , turning up the fringe of Kala Nag 's huge right ear .
13 `` They have said my name to Petersen Sahib , and perhaps -- and perhaps -- and perhaps -- who knows ?
14 Hai !
15 That is a big thorn that I have pulled out ! ''
16 The next few days were spent in getting the elephants together , in walking the newly caught wild elephants up and down between a couple of tame ones to prevent them giving too much trouble on the downward march to the plains , and in taking stock of the blankets and ropes and things that had been worn out or lost in the forest .
17 Petersen Sahib came in on his clever she-elephant Pudmini ; he had been paying off other camps among the hills , for the season was coming to an end , and there was a native clerk sitting at a table under a tree , to pay the drivers their wages .
18 As each man was paid he went back to his elephant , and joined the line that stood ready to start .
19 The catchers , and hunters , and beaters , the men of the regular Keddah , who stayed in the jungle year in and year out , sat on the backs of the elephants that belonged to Petersen Sahib 's permanent force , or leaned against the trees with their guns across their arms , and made fun of the drivers who were going away , and laughed when the newly caught elephants broke the line and ran about .
20 Big Toomai went up to the clerk with Little Toomai behind him , and Machua Appa , the head tracker , said in an undertone to a friend of his , `` There goes one piece of good elephant stuff at least .
21 'T is a pity to send that young jungle-cock to molt in the XXXXX . ''	plains		clerk|couple|dirt|ear|hunters|jungle|plains|thorns|tree|trouble

1 `` No , Mr. Craig .
2 You know if a woman is n't fit to speak in the church she ca n't be fit to sing in it either . ''
3 Eben Craig looked exceedingly foolish .
4 He tiptoed gingerly back to his place .
5 The minister , with an unusual flush on his thin , ascetic face , rose suddenly and gave out the opening hymn .
6 Nobody who heard the singing in Putney church that day ever forgot it .
7 Untrained basses and tenors , unrelieved by a single female voice , are not inspiring .
8 There were no announcements of society meetings for the forthcoming week .
9 On the way home from church that day irate husbands and fathers scolded , argued , or pleaded , according to their several dispositions .
10 One and all met with the same calm statement that if a noble , self-sacrificing woman like Mrs. Cotterell were not good enough to speak in the Putney church , ordinary , everyday women could not be fit to take any part whatever in its work .
11 Sunday School that afternoon was a harrowing failure .
12 Out of all the corps of teachers only one was a man , and he alone was at his post .
13 In the Christian Endeavour meeting on Tuesday night the feminine element sat dumb and unresponsive .
14 The Putney women never did things by halves .
15 The men held out for two weeks .
16 At the end of that time they `` happened '' to meet at the manse and talked the matter over with the harassed minister .
17 Elder Knox said gloomily , `` It 's this way .
18 Nothing can move them women .
19 I know , for I 've tried .
20 My authority has been set at naught in my own household .
21 And I 'm laughed at if I show my XXXXX in any of the other settlements . ''	face		Nothing|basses|face|manse|place|tenors|time|voice|way|woman

1 But they are afraid of him too , because Tabaqui , more than anyone else in the jungle , is apt to go mad , and then he forgets that he was ever afraid of anyone , and runs through the forest biting everything in his way .
2 Even the tiger runs and hides when little Tabaqui goes mad , for madness is the most disgraceful thing that can overtake a wild creature .
3 We call it hydrophobia , but they call it dewanee -- the madness -- and run .
4 `` Enter , then , and look , '' said Father Wolf stiffly , `` but there is no food here . ''
5 `` For a wolf , no , '' said Tabaqui , `` but for so mean a person as myself a dry bone is a good feast .
6 Who are we , the Gidur-log -LSB- the jackal people -RSB- , to pick and choose ? ''
7 He scuttled to the back of the cave , where he found the bone of a buck with some meat on it , and sat cracking the end merrily .
8 `` All thanks for this good meal , '' he said , licking his lips .
9 `` How beautiful are the noble children !
10 How large are their eyes !
11 And so young too !
12 Indeed , indeed , I might have remembered that the children of kings are men from the beginning . ''
13 Now , Tabaqui knew as well as anyone else that there is nothing so unlucky as to compliment children to their faces .
14 It pleased him to see Mother and Father Wolf look uncomfortable .
15 Tabaqui sat still , rejoicing in the mischief that he had made , and then he said spitefully : `` Shere Khan , the Big One , has shifted his hunting grounds .
16 He will hunt among these hills for the next moon , so he has told me . ''
17 Shere Khan was the tiger who lived near the Waingunga River , twenty miles away .
18 `` He has no right ! ''
19 Father Wolf began angrily -- `` By the Law of the Jungle he has no right to change his quarters without due warning .
20 He will frighten every head of game within ten miles , and I -- I have to kill for two , these days . ''
21 `` His mother did not call him Lungri -LSB- the Lame One -RSB- for XXXXX , '' said Mother Wolf quietly .	nothing		bone|buck|eyes|feast|hydrophobia|meal|moon|nothing|tiger|wolf

1 She gave his servants a great deal of money , and they betrayed the secret to her , and also told her of the reel which alone could point out the way .
2 She had no rest now till she had found out where the King guarded the reel , and then she made some little white shirts , and , as she had learnt from her witch-mother , sewed an enchantment in each of them .
3 And when the King had ridden off she took the little shirts and went into the wood , and the reel showed her the way .
4 The children , who saw someone coming in the distance , thought it was their dear father coming to them , and sprang to meet him very joyfully .
5 Then she threw over each one a little shirt , which when it had touched their bodies changed them into swans , and they flew away over the forest .
6 The Queen went home quite satisfied , and thought she had got rid of her step-children ; but the girl had not run to meet her with her brothers , and she knew nothing of her .
7 The next day the King came to visit his children , but he found no one but the girl .
8 ` Where are your brothers ? '
9 asked the King .
10 ` Alas !
11 dear father , ' she answered , ` they have gone away and left me all alone . '
12 And she told him that looking out of her little window she had seen her brothers flying over the wood in the shape of swans , and she showed him the feathers which they had let fall in the yard , and which she had collected .
13 The King mourned , but he did not think that the Queen had done the wicked deed , and as he was afraid the maiden would also be taken from him , he wanted to take her with him .
14 But she was afraid of the stepmother , and begged the King to let her stay just one night more in the castle in the wood .
15 The poor maiden thought , ` My home is no longer here ; I will go and seek my brothers . '
16 And when night came she fled away into the forest .
17 She ran all through the night and the next day , till she could go no farther for weariness .
18 Then she saw a little hut , went in , and found a room with six little beds .
19 She was afraid to lie down on one , so she crept under one of them , lay on the hard floor , and was going to spend the night there .
20 But when the sun had set she heard a noise , and saw six swans flying in at the window .
21 They stood on the floor and blew at one another , and blew all their feathers off , and their swan-skin came off like a XXXXX .	shirt		beds|distance|father|hut|maiden|noise|one|servants|shirt|shirts

1 It is a very soothing lullaby , and the first verse says : Shiv , who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow , Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago , Gave to each his portion , food and toil and fate , From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate .
2 All things made he -- Shiva the Preserver .
3 Mahadeo !
4 Mahadeo !
5 He made all -- Thorn for the camel , fodder for the kine , And mother 's heart for sleepy head , O little son of mine !
6 Little Toomai came in with a joyous tunk-a-tunk at the end of each verse , till he felt sleepy and stretched himself on the fodder at Kala Nag 's side .
7 At last the elephants began to lie down one after another as is their custom , till only Kala Nag at the right of the line was left standing up ; and he rocked slowly from side to side , his ears put forward to listen to the night wind as it blew very slowly across the hills .
8 The air was full of all the night noises that , taken together , make one big silence -- the click of one bamboo stem against the other , the rustle of something alive in the undergrowth , the scratch and squawk of a half-waked bird -LRB- birds are awake in the night much more often than we imagine -RRB- , and the fall of water ever so far away .
9 Little Toomai slept for some time , and when he waked it was brilliant moonlight , and Kala Nag was still standing up with his ears cocked .
10 Little Toomai turned , rustling in the fodder , and watched the curve of his big back against half the stars in heaven , and while he watched he heard , so far away that it sounded no more than a pinhole of noise pricked through the stillness , the `` hoot-toot '' of a wild elephant .
11 All the elephants in the lines jumped up as if they had been shot , and their grunts at last waked the sleeping mahouts , and they came out and drove in the picket pegs with big mallets , and tightened this rope and knotted that till all was quiet .
12 One new elephant had nearly grubbed up his picket , and Big Toomai took off Kala Nag 's leg chain and shackled that elephant fore-foot to hind-foot , but slipped a loop of grass string round Kala Nag 's leg , and told him to remember that he was tied fast .
13 He knew that he and his father and his grandfather had done the very same thing hundreds of times before .
14 Kala Nag did not answer to the order by gurgling , as he usually did .
15 He stood still , looking out across the moonlight , his head a little raised and his ears spread like fans , up to the great folds of the Garo hills .
16 `` Tend to him if he grows restless in the night , '' said Big Toomai to Little Toomai , and he went into the hut and slept .
17 Little Toomai was just going to sleep , too , when he heard the coir string snap with a little `` tang , '' and Kala Nag rolled out of his pickets as slowly and as silently as a cloud rolls out of the mouth of a valley .
18 Little Toomai pattered after him , barefooted , down the road in the moonlight , calling under his breath , `` Kala Nag !
19 Kala Nag !
20 Take me with you , O Kala Nag ! ''
21 The elephant turned , without a sound , took three strides back to the boy in the XXXXX , put down his trunk , swung him up to his neck , and almost before Little Toomai had settled his knees , slipped into the forest .	moonlight		O|elephant|grandfather|moonlight|mother|pickets|portion|rope|tang|things

1 said the egg-shell as a wagon-wheel went over it .
2 ` Oh !
3 how it presses ! '
4 said the Darning-needle . '
5 I shall indeed be sea-sick now .
6 I am breaking ! '
7 CHAPTER I. Down the Rabbit-Hole Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank , and of having nothing to do : once or twice she had peeped into the book her sister was reading , but it had no pictures or conversations in it , ` and what is the use of a book , ' thought Alice ` without pictures or conversation ? '
8 So she was considering in her own mind -LRB- as well as she could , for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid -RRB- , whether the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies , when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her .
9 There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that ; nor did Alice think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself , ` Oh dear !
10 Oh dear !
11 I shall be late ! '
12 -LRB- when she thought it over afterwards , it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this , but at the time it all seemed quite natural -RRB- ; but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-POCKET , and looked at it , and then hurried on , Alice started to her feet , for it flashed across her mind that she had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket , or a watch to take out of it , and burning with curiosity , she ran across the field after it , and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge .
13 In another moment down went Alice after it , never once considering how in the world she was to get out again .
14 The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way , and then dipped suddenly down , so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep well .
15 Either the well was very deep , or she fell very slowly , for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was going to happen next .
16 First , she tried to look down and make out what she was coming to , but it was too dark to see anything ; then she looked at the sides of the well , and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves ; here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs .
17 She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed ; it was labelled ` ORANGE MARMALADE ' , but to her great disappointment it was empty : she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody , so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it .
18 ` Well ! '
19 thought Alice to herself , ` after such a fall as this , I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs !
20 How brave they 'll all think me at home !
21 Why , I would n't say XXXXX about it , even if I fell off the top of the house ! '	anything		anything|cupboards|feel|jar|mind|nothing|pleasure|trouble|tunnel|way

1 So he took heart of grace , and made Martin a Duke , and gave his daughter a rich dowry , and prepared the grandest wedding-feast that had ever been seen , so that to this day the old people in the country still talk of it .
2 After the wedding Martin and his royal bride went to dwell in the magnificent new palace , and here Martin lived in the greatest comfort and luxury , such luxury as he had never imagined .
3 But though he was as happy as the day was long , and as merry as a grig , the King 's daughter fretted all day , thinking of the indignity that had been done her in making her marry Martin , the poor widow 's son , instead of a rich young Prince from a foreign country .
4 So unhappy was she that she spent all her time wondering how she should get rid of her undesirable husband .
5 And first she determined to learn the secret of his power , and , with flattering , caressing words , she tried to coax him to tell her how he was so clever that there was nothing in the world that he could not do .
6 At first he would tell her nothing ; but once , when he was in a yielding mood , she approached him with a winning smile on her lovely face , and , speaking flattering words to him , she gave him a potion to drink , with a sweet , strong taste .
7 And when he had drunk it Martin 's lips were unsealed , and he told her that all his power lay in the magic ring that he wore on his finger , and he described to her how to use it , and , still speaking , he fell into a deep sleep .
8 And when she saw that the potion had worked , and that he was sound asleep , the Princess took the magic ring from his finger , and , going into the courtyard , she threw it from the palm of one hand into the other .
9 On the instant the twelve youths appeared , and asked her what she commanded them to do .
10 Then she told them that by the next morning they were to do away with the castle , and the bridge , and the church , and put in their stead the humble hut in which Martin used to live with his mother , and that while he slept her husband was to be carried to his old lowly room ; and that they were to bear her away to the utmost ends of the earth , where an old King lived who would make her welcome in his palace , and surround her with the state that befitted a royal Princess .
11 ` You shall be obeyed , ' answered the twelve youths at the same moment .
12 And lo and behold !
13 the following morning , when the King awoke and looked out of his window he beheld to his amazement that the palace , bridge , church , and trees had all vanished , and there was nothing in their place but a bare , miserable-looking hut .
14 Immediately the King sent for his son-in-law , and commanded him to explain what had happened .
15 But Martin looked at his royal father-in-law , and answered never a word .
16 Then the King was very angry , and , calling a council together , he charged Martin with having been guilty of witchcraft , and of having deceived the King , and having made away with the Princess ; and he was condemned to imprisonment in a high stone tower , with neither meat nor drink , till he should die of starvation .
17 Then , in the hour of his dire necessity , his old friends Schurka -LRB- the dog -RRB- and Waska -LRB- the cat -RRB- remembered how Martin had once saved them from a cruel death ; and they took counsel together as to how they should help him .
18 And Schurka growled , and was of opinion that he would like to tear everyone in pieces ; but Waska purred meditatively , and scratched the back of her ear with a velvet paw , and remained lost in thought .
19 At the end of a few minutes she had made up her mind , and , turning to Schurka , said : ` Let us go together into the town , and the moment we meet a baker you must make a rush between his legs and upset the tray from off his head ; I will lay hold of the rolls , and will carry them off to our master . '
20 No sooner said than done .
21 Together the two faithful creatures trotted off into the town , and very soon they met a baker bearing a tray on his XXXXX , and looking round on all sides , while he cried : ` Fresh rolls , sweet cake , Fancy bread of every kind .	head		bridge|death|head|mother|nothing|rolls|secret|sleep|smile|world

1 Alphege threw himself into his arms , and the brothers hastened to the royal palace , where in the presence of the entire court he received the crown from his brother 's hand .
2 To clear away any possible doubt , he showed the ruby which the Good Queen had given him in his childhood .
3 As they were gazing at it , it suddenly split with a loud noise , and at the same moment the Wicked Queen expired .
4 King Alphege lost no time in marrying his dear and lovely Zayda , and his joy was complete when the Good Queen appeared at his wedding .
5 She assured him that the Fairy of the Mountain had henceforth lost all power over him , and after spending some time with the young couple , and bestowing the most costly presents on them , she retired to her own country .
6 King Alphege insisted on his brother sharing his throne , and they all lived to a good old age , universally beloved and admired .
7 FAIRER-THAN-A-FAIRY Once there lived a King who had no children for many years after his marriage .
8 At length heaven granted him a daughter of such remarkable beauty that he could think of no name so appropriate for her as ` Fairer-than-a-Fairy . '
9 It never occurred to the good-natured monarch that such a name was certain to call down the hatred and jealousy of the fairies in a body on the child , but this was what happened .
10 No sooner had they heard of this presumptuous name than they resolved to gain possession of her who bore it , and either to torment her cruelly , or at least to conceal her from the eyes of all men .
11 The eldest of their tribe was entrusted to carry out their revenge .
12 This Fairy was named Lagree ; she was so old that she only had one eye and one tooth left , and even these poor remains she had to keep all night in a strengthening liquid .
13 She was also so spiteful that she gladly devoted all her time to carrying out all the mean or ill-natured tricks of the whole body of fairies .
14 With her large experience , added to her native spite , she found but little difficulty in carrying off Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
15 The poor child , who was only seven years old , nearly died of fear on finding herself in the power of this hideous creature .
16 However , when after an hour 's journey underground she found herself in a splendid palace with lovely gardens , she felt a little reassured , and was further cheered when she discovered that her pet cat and dog had followed her .
17 The old Fairy led her to a pretty room which she said should be hers , at the same time giving her the strictest orders never to let out the fire which was burning brightly in the grate .
18 She then gave two glass bottles into the Princess 's charge , desiring her to take the greatest care of them , and having enforced her orders with the most awful threats in case of disobedience , she vanished , leaving the little girl at liberty to explore the palace and grounds and a good deal relieved at having only two apparently easy tasks set her .
19 Several years passed , during which time the Princess grew accustomed to her lonely life , obeyed the Fairy 's orders , and by degrees forgot all about the court of the King her father .
20 One day , whilst passing near a fountain in the garden , she noticed that the sun 's rays fell on the water in such a manner as to produce a brilliant rainbow .
21 She stood still to admire it , when , to her great surprise , she heard a voice addressing her which seemed to come from the centre of its XXXXX .	rays		brothers|degrees|fountain|hatred|henceforth|life|orders|rays|spite|tribe

1 `` Well said , '' growled Baloo , for Mowgli had returned thanks very prettily .
2 The Python dropped his head lightly for a minute on Mowgli 's shoulder .
3 `` A brave heart and a courteous tongue , '' said he .
4 `` They shall carry thee far through the jungle , manling .
5 But now go hence quickly with thy friends .
6 Go and sleep , for the moon sets , and what follows it is not well that thou shouldst see . ''
7 The moon was sinking behind the hills and the lines of trembling monkeys huddled together on the walls and battlements looked like ragged shaky fringes of things .
8 Baloo went down to the tank for a drink and Bagheera began to put his fur in order , as Kaa glided out into the center of the terrace and brought his jaws together with a ringing snap that drew all the monkeys ' eyes upon him .
9 `` The moon sets , '' he said .
10 `` Is there yet light enough to see ? ''
11 From the walls came a moan like the wind in the tree-tops -- `` We see , O Kaa . ''
12 `` Good .
13 Begins now the dance -- the Dance of the Hunger of Kaa .
14 Sit still and watch . ''
15 He turned twice or thrice in a big circle , weaving his head from right to left .
16 Then he began making loops and figures of eight with his body , and soft , oozy triangles that melted into squares and five-sided figures , and coiled mounds , never resting , never hurrying , and never stopping his low humming song .
17 It grew darker and darker , till at last the dragging , shifting coils disappeared , but they could hear the rustle of the scales .
18 Baloo and Bagheera stood still as stone , growling in their throats , their neck hair bristling , and Mowgli watched and wondered .
19 `` Bandar-log , '' said the voice of Kaa at last , `` can ye stir foot or hand without my order ?
20 Speak ! ''
21 `` Without thy order we can not stir foot or XXXXX , O Kaa ! ''	hand		Sit|body|coils|figures|hand|loops|stone|thanks|walls|wind

1 One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field .
2 The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
3 Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid .
4 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
5 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves .
6 When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew very anxious , and when his game bag was found close to the mill-pond she guessed at once what had befallen him .
7 She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing .
8 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
9 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
10 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
11 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
12 The hunter 's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .
13 Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon , but it passed at last , and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond , combed her black hair with a golden comb , and when she had finished , placed the comb on the bank ; then she watched the water impatiently .
14 Soon she heard a rushing sound , and a big wave rose suddenly and swept the comb off the bank , and a minute after the head of her husband rose from the pond and gazed sadly at her .
15 But immediately another wave came , and the head sank back into the water without having said a word .
16 The pond lay still and motionless , glittering in the moonshine , and the hunter 's wife was not a bit better off than she had been before .
17 In despair she wandered about for days and nights , and at last , worn out by fatigue , she sank once more into a deep sleep , and dreamt exactly the same dream about the old witch .
18 So next morning she went again to the flowery meadow and sought the witch in her hut , and told her of her grief .
19 The old woman counselled her to go to the mill-pond the next full moon and play upon a golden flute , and then to lay the flute on the bank .
20 As soon as the next moon was full the hunter 's wife went to the mill-pond , played on a golden flute , and when she had finished placed it on the bank .
21 Then a rushing sound was heard , and a wave swept the flute off the XXXXX , and soon the head of the hunter appeared and rose up higher and higher till he was half out of the water .	bank		arms|bank|despair|fatigue|meadow|round|shot|skin|sound|witch

1 She beat the maiden , and said that if she did not obey it would go ill with her .
2 So she did her mother 's bidding , and , standing one day by the window , she looked away into the far distance as if she were very sad .
3 ` Why are you standing there looking so sad ? '
4 asked the Hunter .
5 ` Alas , my love , ' she replied , ` over there lies the granite mountain where the costly precious stones grow .
6 I have a great longing to go there , so that when I think of it I am very sad .
7 For who can fetch them ?
8 Only the birds who fly ; a man , never . '
9 ` If you have no other trouble , ' said the Hunter , ` that one I can easily remove from your heart . '
10 So he wrapped her round in his cloak and wished themselves to the granite mountain , and in an instant there they were , sitting on it !
11 The precious stones sparkled so brightly on all sides that it was a pleasure to see them , and they collected the most beautiful and costly together .
12 But now the old witch had through her caused the Hunter 's eyes to become heavy .
13 He said to the maiden , ` We will sit down for a little while and rest ; I am so tired that I can hardly stand on my feet . '
14 So they sat down , and he laid his head on her lap and fell asleep .
15 As soon as he was sound asleep she unfastened the cloak from his shoulders , threw it on her own , left the granite and stones , and wished herself home again .
16 But when the Hunter had finished his sleep and awoke , he found that his love had betrayed him and left him alone on the wild mountain .
17 ` Oh , ' said he , ` why is faithlessness so great in the world ? '
18 and he sat down in sorrow and trouble , not knowing what to do .
19 But the mountain belonged to fierce and huge giants , who lived on it and traded there , and he had not sat long before he saw three of them striding towards him .
20 So he lay down as if he had fallen into a deep sleep .
21 The XXXXX came up , and the first pushed him with his foot , and said , ` What sort of an earthworm is that ? '	giants		bidding|birds|giants|granite|home|mother|mountain|pleasure|sides|witch

1 said Big Klaus , and he ran off at once to Little Klaus .
2 ` Where did you get so much money from ? '
3 ` Oh , that was from my horse-skin .
4 I sold it yesterday evening . '
5 ` That 's certainly a good price ! '
6 said Big Klaus ; and running home in great haste , he took an axe , knocked all his four horses on the head , skinned them , and went into the town .
7 ` Skins !
8 skins !
9 Who will buy skins ? '
10 he cried through the streets .
11 All the shoemakers and tanners came running to ask him what he wanted for them . '
12 A bushel of money for each , ' said Big Klaus .
13 ` Are you mad ? '
14 they all exclaimed .
15 ` Do you think we have money by the bushel ? '
16 ` Skins !
17 skins !
18 Who will buy skins ? '
19 he cried again , and to all who asked him what they cost , he answered , ' A bushel of money . '
20 ` He is making game of us , ' they said ; and the shoemakers seized their yard measures and the tanners their leathern aprons and they gave Big Klaus a good beating .
21 ` XXXXX !	Skins		Klaus|Skins|game|haste|head|home|horses|money|price|streets

1 On the first evening of these last three days , when he came home and was eating his supper , he noticed the old woman stealing into the stables .
2 The Prince followed her secretly to see what she was going to do .
3 He crouched down in the doorway and heard the wicked witch telling the horses to wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep , and then to go and hide themselves in the river , and to stay there till she told them to return ; and if they did n't do as she told them the old woman threatened to beat them till they bled .
4 When Iwanich heard all this he went back to his room , determined that nothing should induce him to fall asleep next day .
5 On the following morning he led the mare and foal to the fields as usual , but bound a cord round them both which he kept in his hand .
6 But after a few hours , by the magic arts of the old witch , he was overpowered by sleep , and the mare and foal escaped and did as they had been told to do .
7 The Prince did not awake till late in the evening ; and when he did , he found , to his horror , that the horses had disappeared .
8 Filled with despair , he cursed the moment when he had entered the service of the cruel witch , and already he saw his head sticking up on the sharp spike beside the others .
9 Then he suddenly remembered the fish 's scale , which , with the eagle 's feather and the fox 's hairs , he always carried about with him .
10 He drew the scale from his pocket , and hurrying to the river he threw it in .
11 In a minute the grateful fish swam towards the bank on which Iwanich was standing , and said : ` What do you command , my friend and benefactor ? '
12 The Prince replied : ' I had to look after a mare and foal , and they have run away from me and have hidden themselves in the river ; if you wish to save my life drive them back to the land . '
13 ` Wait a moment , ' answered the fish , ` and I and my friends will soon drive them out of the water . '
14 With these words the creature disappeared into the depths of the stream .
15 Almost immediately a rushing hissing sound was heard in the waters , the waves dashed against the banks , the foam was tossed into the air , and the two horses leapt suddenly on to the dry land , trembling and shaking with fear .
16 Iwanich sprang at once on to the mare 's back , seized the foal by its bridle , and hastened home in the highest spirits .
17 When the witch saw the Prince bringing the horses home she could hardly conceal her wrath , and as soon as she had placed Iwanich 's supper before him she stole away again to the stables .
18 The Prince followed her , and heard her scolding the beasts harshly for not having hidden themselves better .
19 She bade them wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep and then to hide themselves in the clouds , and to remain there till she called .
20 If they did not do as she told them she would beat them till they bled .
21 The next morning , after Iwanich had led his horses to the fields , he fell once more into a magic XXXXX .	sleep		beasts|bridle|doorway|feather|fields|mare|moment|scale|sleep|sound

1 when suddenly , thump !
2 thump !
3 down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves , and the fall was over .
4 Alice was not a bit hurt , and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment : she looked up , but it was all dark overhead ; before her was another long passage , and the White Rabbit was still in sight , hurrying down it .
5 There was not a moment to be lost : away went Alice like the wind , and was just in time to hear it say , as it turned a corner , ` Oh my ears and whiskers , how late it 's getting ! '
6 She was close behind it when she turned the corner , but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen : she found herself in a long , low hall , which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof .
7 There were doors all round the hall , but they were all locked ; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other , trying every door , she walked sadly down the middle , wondering how she was ever to get out again .
8 Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table , all made of solid glass ; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key , and Alice 's first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall ; but , alas !
9 either the locks were too large , or the key was too small , but at any rate it would not open any of them .
10 However , on the second time round , she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before , and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high : she tried the little golden key in the lock , and to her great delight it fitted !
11 Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage , not much larger than a rat-hole : she knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw .
12 How she longed to get out of that dark hall , and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains , but she could not even get her head through the doorway ; ` and even if my head would go through , ' thought poor Alice , ` it would be of very little use without my shoulders .
13 Oh , how I wish I could shut up like a telescope !
14 I think I could , if I only know how to begin . '
15 For , you see , so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately , that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible .
16 There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door , so she went back to the table , half hoping she might find another key on it , or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes : this time she found a little bottle on it , -LRB- ` which certainly was not here before , ' said Alice , -RRB- and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label , with the words ` DRINK ME ' beautifully printed on it in large letters .
17 It was all very well to say ` Drink me , ' but the wise little Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry .
18 ` No , I 'll look first , ' she said , ` and see whether it 's marked `` poison '' or not ' ; for she had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt , and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things , all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them : such as , that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long ; and that if you cut your finger VERY deeply with a knife , it usually bleeds ; and she had never forgotten that , if you drink much from a bottle marked ` poison , ' it is almost certain to disagree with you , sooner or later .
19 However , this bottle was NOT marked ` poison , ' so Alice ventured to taste it , and finding it very nice , -LRB- it had , in fact , a sort of mixed flavour of cherry-tart , custard , pine-apple , roast turkey , toffee , and hot buttered toast , -RRB- she very soon finished it off .
20 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ` What a curious feeling ! '
21 said Alice ; ' I must be shutting up like a XXXXX . '	telescope		bottle|doorway|ears|fact|garden|hall|nothing|passage|sort|telescope

1 I do n't believe that LeMar girl is a bit better than she ought to be .
2 I wish I 'd never taken her to board , and if you say so , I 'll send her packing right off and not give her a chance to make mischief atween folks . ''
3 Estella 's suffering found vent in a burst of anger .
4 `` You need n't do anything of the sort ! ''
5 she cried .
6 `` It 's all nonsense about Spencer -- it was my fault -- and anyhow , if he is so easily led away as that , I am sure I do n't want him !
7 I wish to goodness , Aunt , you 'd leave me alone ! ''
8 `` Oh , very well ! ''
9 returned Mrs. Bowes in an offended tone .
10 `` It was for your own good I spoke .
11 You know best , I suppose .
12 If you do n't care , I do n't know that anyone else need . ''
13 Estella went about her work like one in a dream .
14 A great hatred had sprung up in her heart against Vivienne LeMar .
15 The simple-hearted country girl felt almost murderous .
16 The whole day seemed like a nightmare to her .
17 When night came she dressed herself with feverish care , for she could not quell the hope that Spencer would surely come again .
18 But he did not ; and when she went up to bed , it did not seem as if she could live through the night .
19 She lay staring wide-eyed through the darkness until dawn .
20 She wished that she might cry , but no tears came to her relief .
21 Next XXXXX she went to work with furious energy .	day		anything|day|dream|goodness|hatred|hope|need|sort|suffering|work

1 He may be asleep now , and even were he awake what if he would rather kill his own goats ? ''
2 Bagheera , who did not know much about Kaa , was naturally suspicious .
3 `` Then in that case , thou and I together , old hunter , might make him see reason . ''
4 Here Baloo rubbed his faded brown shoulder against the Panther , and they went off to look for Kaa the Rock Python .
5 They found him stretched out on a warm ledge in the afternoon sun , admiring his beautiful new coat , for he had been in retirement for the last ten days changing his skin , and now he was very splendid -- darting his big blunt-nosed head along the ground , and twisting the thirty feet of his body into fantastic knots and curves , and licking his lips as he thought of his dinner to come .
6 `` He has not eaten , '' said Baloo , with a grunt of relief , as soon as he saw the beautifully mottled brown and yellow jacket .
7 `` Be careful , Bagheera !
8 He is always a little blind after he has changed his skin , and very quick to strike . ''
9 Kaa was not a poison snake -- in fact he rather despised the poison snakes as cowards -- but his strength lay in his hug , and when he had once lapped his huge coils round anybody there was no more to be said .
10 `` Good hunting ! ''
11 cried Baloo , sitting up on his haunches .
12 Like all snakes of his breed Kaa was rather deaf , and did not hear the call at first .
13 Then he curled up ready for any accident , his head lowered .
14 `` Good hunting for us all , '' he answered .
15 `` Oho , Baloo , what dost thou do here ?
16 Good hunting , Bagheera .
17 One of us at least needs food .
18 Is there any news of game afoot ?
19 A doe now , or even a young buck ?
20 I am as empty as a dried well . ''
21 `` We are XXXXX , '' said Baloo carelessly .	hunting		body|buck|case|dinner|ground|haunches|head|hunter|hunting|knots

1 `` I 'm just watching my babies .
2 Are n't they lovely ? ''
3 said he .
4 Peter stared harder than ever , but he could n't see anything that looked like a baby Toad .
5 `` Where are they ? ''
6 asked he .
7 `` I do n't see any babies but those of Grandfather Frog , and if you ask me , I always did think tadpoles about the homeliest things in th ' world . ''
8 Old Mr. Toad grew indignant .
9 `` Those are not Grandfather Frog 's children ; they 're mine ! ''
10 he sputtered .
11 `` And I 'll have you know that they are the most beautiful babies in th ' world ! ''
12 Peter drew a hand across his mouth to hide a smile .
13 `` I beg your pardon , Mr. Toad , '' said he .
14 `` I -- I thought all tadpoles were Frog babies .
15 They all look alike to me . ''
16 `` Well , they 're not , '' declared Old Mr. Toad .
17 `` How any one can mistake my babies for their cousins I can not understand .
18 Now mine are beautiful , while -- '' `` Chug-arum ! ''
19 interrupted the great deep voice of Grandfather Frog .
20 `` What are you talking about ?
21 Why , your XXXXX are no more to be compared with my babies for real beauty than nothing at all !	babies		anything|babies|hand|mistake|mouth|one|pardon|smile|tadpoles|world

1 It thanked the Princess most heartily for her goodness , and said that its sufferings had already been greatly lessened .
2 Now one of the Princess 's elder sisters , who was very inquisitive , had found out about everything , and went to pay her youngest sister a visit in the ruined castle .
3 She implored her so urgently to let her spend the night with her in the golden bed , that at last the good-natured little Princess consented .
4 But at midnight , when the odd folk appeared , the elder sister screamed with terror , and from this time on the youngest Princess insisted always on keeping watch alone .
5 So she lived in solitude all the daytime , and at night she would have been frightened , had she not been so brave ; but every day the crow came and thanked her for her endurance , and assured her that his sufferings were far less than they had been .
6 And so two years passed away , when one day the crow came to the Princess and said : ` In another year I shall be freed from the spell I am under at present , because then the seven years will be over .
7 But before I can resume my natural form , and take possession of the belongings of my forefathers , you must go out into the world and take service as a maidservant . '
8 The young Princess consented at once , and for a whole year she served as a maid ; but in spite of her youth and beauty she was very badly treated , and suffered many things .
9 One evening , when she was spinning flax , and had worked her little white hands weary , she heard a rustling beside her and a cry of joy .
10 Then she saw a handsome youth standing beside her ; who knelt down at her feet and kissed the little weary white hands . '
11 I am the Prince , ' he said , ` who you in your goodness , when I was wandering about in the shape of a black crow , freed from the most awful torments .
12 Come now to my castle with me , and let us live there happily together . '
13 So they went to the castle where they had both endured so much .
14 But when they reached it , it was difficult to believe that it was the same , for it had all been rebuilt and done up again .
15 And there they lived for a hundred years , a hundred years of joy and happiness .
16 HOW SIX MEN TRAVELLED THROUGH THE WIDE WORLD There was once upon a time a man who understood all sorts of arts ; he served in the war , and bore himself bravely and well ; but when the war was over , he got his discharge , and set out on his travels with three farthings of his pay in his pocket .
17 ` Wait , ' he said ; ` that does not please me ; only let me find the right people , and the King shall yet give me all the treasures of his kingdom . '
18 He strode angrily into the forest , and there he saw a man standing who had uprooted six trees as if they were straws .
19 He said to him , ` Will you be my servant and travel with me ? '
20 ` Yes , ' he answered ; ` but first of all I will take this little bundle of sticks home to my mother , ' and he took one of the trees and wound it round the other five , raised the bundle on his shoulders and bore it off .
21 Then he came back and went with his master , who said , ` We two ought to be able to travel through the wide XXXXX ! '	world		crow|flax|happiness|joy|maid|shape|solitude|time|visit|world

1 Plump !
2 there was Big Klaus in the water , and he sank like lead to the bottom . '
3 I doubt if he will find any cattle ! '
4 said Little Klaus as he drove his own home .
5 PRINCE RING -LRB- 30 -RRB- -LRB- 30 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
6 Once upon a time there was a King and his Queen in their kingdom .
7 They had one daughter , who was called Ingiborg , and one son , whose name was Ring .
8 He was less fond of adventures than men of rank usually were in those days , and was not famous for strength or feats of arms .
9 When he was twelve years old , one fine winter day he rode into the forest along with his men to enjoy himself .
10 They went on a long way , until they caught sight of a hind with a gold ring on its horns .
11 The Prince was eager to catch it , if possible , so they gave chase and rode on without stopping until all the horses began to founder beneath them .
12 At last the Prince 's horse gave way too , and then there came over them a darkness so black that they could no longer see the hind .
13 By this time they were far away from any house , and thought it was high time to be making their way home again , but they found they had got lost now .
14 At first they all kept together , but soon each began to think that he knew the right way best ; so they separated , and all went in different directions .
15 The Prince , too , had got lost like the rest , and wandered on for a time until he came to a little clearing in the forest not far from the sea , where he saw a woman sitting on a chair and a big barrel standing beside her .
16 The Prince went up to her and saluted her politely , and she received him very graciously .
17 He looked down into the barrel then , and saw lying at the bottom an unusually beautiful gold ring , which pleased him so much that he could not take his eyes off it .
18 The woman saw this , and said that he might have it if he would take the trouble to get it ; for which the Prince thanked her , and said it was at least worth trying .
19 So he leaned over into the barrel , which did not seem very deep , and thought he would easily reach the ring ; but the more he stretched down after it the deeper grew the barrel .
20 As he was thus bending down into it the woman suddenly rose up and pushed him in head first , saying that now he could take up his quarters there .
21 Then she fixed the top on the XXXXX and threw it out into the sea .	barrel		barrel|daughter|forest|home|lead|name|ring|sea|son|trouble

1 But to you and me it would have looked just as it did to Cousin Myra -- a very discontented and unbecoming scowl .
2 `` I 'm awfully glad to see you , Cousin Myra , '' explained Frank carefully , `` and your being here may make some things worth while .
3 But Christmas is just a bore -- a regular bore . ''
4 That was what Uncle Edgar called things that did n't interest him , so that Frank felt pretty sure of his word .
5 Nevertheless , he wondered uncomfortably what made Cousin Myra smile so queerly .
6 `` Why , how dreadful ! ''
7 she said brightly .
8 `` I thought all boys and girls looked upon Christmas as the very best time in the year . ''
9 `` We do n't , '' said Frank gloomily .
10 `` It 's just the same old thing year in and year out .
11 We know just exactly what is going to happen .
12 We even know pretty well what presents we are going to get .
13 And Christmas Day itself is always the same .
14 We 'll get up in the morning , and our stockings will be full of things , and half of them we do n't want .
15 Then there 's dinner .
16 It 's always so poky .
17 And all the uncles and aunts come to dinner -- just the same old crowd , every year , and they say just the same things .
18 Aunt Desda always says , ` Why , Frankie , how you have grown ! '
19 She knows I hate to be called Frankie .
20 And after dinner they 'll sit round and talk the rest of the day , and that 's all .
21 Yes , I call XXXXX a nuisance . ''	Christmas		Christmas|boys|day|dinner|half|interest|rest|stockings|things|uncles

1 But before the Prince had time to feel despondent the black girl beckoned to him in the distance from behind a rock , where she had hidden herself for fear her mother should catch sight of her .
2 Full of joy the youth hurried towards her , and begged her aid and counsel in the new piece of work he had been given to do .
3 But this time the Fairy had watched the Prince 's movements from her window , and she saw him hiding himself behind the rock with her daughter .
4 She uttered a piercing shriek so that the mountains re-echoed with the sound of it , and the terrified pair had hardly dared to look out from their hiding-place when the enraged woman , with her dress and hair flying in the wind , hurried over the bridge of clouds .
5 The Prince at once gave himself up for lost , but the girl told him to be of good courage and to follow her as quickly as he could .
6 But before they left their shelter she broke off a little bit of the rock , spoke some magic words over it , and threw it in the direction her mother was coming from .
7 In a moment a glittering palace arose before the eyes of the Fairy which blinded her with its dazzling splendour , and with its many doors and passages prevented her for some time from finding her way out of it .
8 In the meantime the black girl hurried on with the Prince , hastening to reach the river , where once on the other side they would for ever be out of the wicked Fairy 's power .
9 But before they had accomplished half the way they heard again the rustle of her garments and her muttered curses pursuing them closely .
10 The Prince was terrified ; he dared not look back , and he felt his strength giving way .
11 But before he had time to despair the girl uttered some more magic words , and immediately she herself was changed into a pond , and the Prince into a duck swimming on its surface .
12 When the Fairy saw this her rage knew no bounds , and she used all her magic wits to make the pond disappear ; she caused a hill of sand to arise at her feet , meaning it to dry up the water at once .
13 But the sand hill only drove the pond a little farther away , and its waters seemed to increase instead of diminishing .
14 When the old woman saw that the powers of her magic were of so little avail , she had recourse to cunning .
15 She threw a lot of gold nuts into the pond , hoping in this way to catch the duck , but all her efforts were fruitless , for the little creature refused to let itself be caught .
16 Then a new idea struck the wicked old woman , and hiding herself behind the rock which had sheltered the fugitives , she waited behind it , watching carefully for the moment when the Prince and her daughter should resume their natural forms and continue their journey .
17 She had not to wait long , for as soon as the girl thought her mother was safely out of the way , she changed herself and the Prince once more into their human shape , and set out cheerfully for the river .
18 But they had not gone many steps when the wicked Fairy hurried after them , a drawn dagger in her hand , and was close upon them , when suddenly , instead of the Prince and her daughter , she found herself in front of a great stone church , whose entrance was carefully guarded by a huge monk .
19 Breathless with rage and passion , she tried to plunge her dagger into the monk 's heart , but it fell shattered in pieces at her feet .
20 In her desperation she determined to pull down the church , and thus to destroy her two victims for ever .
21 She stamped three times on the ground , and the earth trembled , and both the church and the XXXXX began to shake .	monk		counsel|direction|garments|monk|mountains|pond|shriek|sight|steps|wits

1 ` Well , if that is the case , ' said the manikin , ` sit down beside me ; we can rest for a little and have something to eat .
2 Give me what you have got in your satchel . '
3 Now , the poor Simpleton was ashamed to show what was in it .
4 However , he thought it best not to make a fuss , so he opened the satchel , and could scarcely believe his own eyes , for , instead of the hard crust , he saw two beautiful fresh rolls and some cold meat .
5 He shared them with the manikin , who licked his lips and said : ` Now , go into that wood , and stop in front of the first tree , bow three times , and then strike the tree with your axe , fall on your knees on the ground , with your face on the earth , and remain there till you are raised up .
6 You will then find a ship at your side , step into it and fly to the King 's Palace .
7 If you meet anyone on the way , take him with you . '
8 The Simpleton thanked the manikin very kindly , bade him farewell , and went into the road .
9 When he got to the first tree he stopped in front of it , did everything just as he had been told , and , kneeling on the ground with his face to the earth , fell asleep .
10 After a little time he was aroused ; he awoke and , rubbing his eyes , saw a ready-made ship at his side , and at once got into it .
11 And the ship rose and rose , and in another minute was flying through the air , when the Simpleton , who was on the look out , cast his eyes down to the earth and saw a man beneath him on the road , who was kneeling with his ear upon the damp ground .
12 ` Hallo ! '
13 he called out , ` what are you doing down there ? ' '
14 I am listening to what is going on in the world , ' replied the man .
15 ` Come with me in my ship , ' said the Simpleton .
16 So the man was only too glad , and got in beside him ; and the ship flew , and flew , and flew through the air , till again from his outlook the Simpleton saw a man on the road below , who was hopping on one leg , while his other leg was tied up behind his ear .
17 So he hailed him , calling out : ` Hallo !
18 what are you doing , hopping on one leg ? ' '
19 I ca n't help it , ' replied the man . '
20 I walk so fast that unless I tied up one leg I should be at the end of the earth in a bound . '
21 ` Come with us on my ship , ' he answered ; and the man made no objections , but joined them ; and the ship flew on , and on , and on , till suddenly the Simpleton , looking down on the XXXXX below , beheld a man aiming with a gun into the distance .	road		farewell|leg|lips|look|meat|road|step|time|tree|way

1 he cried ; ` shall I never see my lovely Princess again ? '
2 Who knows where she may be , and what fairy may have her in his keeping ?
3 I am only a man , but I am strong in my love , and I will seek the whole world through till I find her . '
4 So saying , he left the court , and made ready for his journey .
5 He travelled many weary days without hearing a single word of the lost Princess , till one morning , as he was walking through a thick forest , he suddenly perceived a magnificent palace standing at the end of a pine avenue , and his heart bounded to think that he might be gazing on Rosalie 's prison .
6 He hastened his steps , and quickly arrived at the gate of the palace , which was formed of a single agate .
7 The gate swung open to let him through , and he next passed successively three courts , surrounded by deep ditches filled with running water , with birds of brilliant plumage flying about the banks .
8 Everything around was rare and beautiful , but the Prince scarcely raised his eyes to all these wonders .
9 He thought only of the Princess and where he should find her , but in vain he opened every door and searched in every corner ; he neither saw Rosalie nor anyone else .
10 At last there was no place left for him to search but a little wood , which contained in the centre a sort of hall built entirely of orange-trees , with four small rooms opening out of the corners .
11 Three of these were empty except for statues and wonderful things , but in the fourth the Invisible Prince caught sight of Rosalie .
12 His joy at beholding her again was , however , somewhat lessened by seeing that the Prince of the Air was kneeling at her feet , and pleading his own cause .
13 But it was in vain that he implored her to listen ; she only shook her head .
14 ` No , ' was all she would say ; ` you snatched me from my father whom I loved , and all the splendour in the world can never console me .
15 Go !
16 I can never feel anything towards you but hate and contempt . '
17 With these words she turned away and entered her own apartments .
18 Unknown to herself the Invisible Prince had followed her , but fearing to be discovered by the Princess in the presence of others , he made up his mind to wait quietly till dark ; and employed the long hours in writing a poem to the Princess , which he laid on the bed beside her .
19 This done , he thought of nothing but how best to deliver Rosalie , and he resolved to take advantage of a visit which the Prince of the Air paid every year to his mother and brothers in order to strike the blow .
20 One day Rosalie was sitting alone in her room thinking of her troubles when she suddenly saw a pen get up from off the desk and begin to write all by itself on a sheet of white paper .
21 As she did not know that it was guided by an invisible hand she was very much astonished , and the moment that the pen had ceased to move she instantly went over to the table , where she found some lovely verses , telling her that another shared her distresses , whatever they might be , and loved her with all his heart ; and that he would never rest until he had delivered her from the hands of the XXXXX she hated .	man		Everything|apartments|contempt|corner|courts|door|gate|man|palace|statues

1 But as he did not want the real story to be known , he said that about midnight a huge wasp had flown through the branches , and buzzed incessantly round him .
2 He had warded it off with his sword , and at dawn , when he was becoming quite worn out , the wasp had vanished as suddenly as it had appeared .
3 The King , who never doubted the truth of this tale , bade his son go to rest at once and recover from the fatigues of the night ; but he himself went and ordered many feasts to be held in honour of the preservation of the wonderful fruit .
4 The whole capital was in a stir , and everyone shared in the King 's joy ; the Prince alone took no part in the festivities .
5 While the King was at a banquet , Iwanich took some purses of gold , and mounting the quickest horse in the royal stable , he sped off like the wind without a single soul being any the wiser .
6 It was only on the next day that they missed him ; the King was very distressed at his disappearance , and sent search-parties all over the kingdom to look for him , but in vain ; and after six months they gave him up as dead , and in another six months they had forgotten all about him .
7 But in the meantime the Prince , with the help of his ring , had had a most successful journey , and no evil had befallen him .
8 At the end of three months he came to the entrance of a huge forest , which looked as if it had never been trodden by human foot before , and which seemed to stretch out indefinitely .
9 The Prince was about to enter the wood by a little path he had discovered , when he heard a voice shouting to him : ` Hold , youth !
10 Whither are you going ? '
11 Iwanich turned round , and saw a tall , gaunt-looking man , clad in miserable rags , leaning on a crooked staff and seated at the foot of an oak tree , which was so much the same colour as himself that it was little wonder the Prince had ridden past the tree without noticing him .
12 ` Where else should I be going , ' he said , ` than through the wood ? '
13 ` Through the wood ? '
14 said the old man in amazement .
15 ` It 's easily seen that you have heard nothing of this forest , that you rush so blindly to meet your doom .
16 Well , listen to me before you ride any further ; let me tell you that this wood hides in its depths a countless number of the fiercest tigers , hyenas , wolves , bears , and snakes , and all sorts of other monsters .
17 If I were to cut you and your horse up into tiny morsels and throw them to the beasts , there would n't be one bit for each hundred of them .
18 Take my advice , therefore , and if you wish to save your life follow some other path . '
19 The Prince was rather taken aback by the old man 's words , and considered for a minute what he should do ; then looking at his ring , and perceiving that it sparkled as brightly as ever , he called out : ` If this wood held even more terrible things than it does , I can not help myself , for I must go through it . '
20 Here he spurred his horse and rode on ; but the old beggar screamed so loudly after him that the Prince turned round and rode back to the oak tree . '
21 I am really sorry for you , ' said the XXXXX , ` but if you are quite determined to brave the dangers of the forest , let me at least give you a piece of advice which will help you against these monsters .	beggar		banquet|beggar|branches|disappearance|everyone|festivities|path|preservation|voice|wolves

1 To him they were all just wriggling pollywogs .
2 They were more interesting now , because he had found out that some of them were Toads and some were Frogs , and he had n't known before that baby Toads begin life as tadpoles , but he had no intention of being drawn into the dispute now waxing furious between Grandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad .
3 IX THE SMILING POOL KINDERGARTEN Play a little , learn a little , grow a little too ; That 's what every pollywoggy tries his best to do .
4 Of course .
5 That 's what a kindergarten is for .
6 And you may be sure that the babies of Grandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad and Stickytoes the Tree Toad did all of these things in the kindergarten of the Smiling Pool .
7 They looked considerably alike , did these little cousins , for they were all pollywogs to begin with .
8 Peter Rabbit came over every day to watch them .
9 Always he had thought pollywogs just homely , wriggling things , not the least bit interesting , but since he had discovered how proud of them were Grandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad , he had begun to wonder about them and then to watch them .
10 `` There 's one thing about them , and that is they are not in danger the way any babies are , '' said Peter , talking to himself as is his way when there is no one else to talk to .
11 Just then a funny little black pollywog wriggled into sight , and while Peter was watching him , a stout-jawed water-beetle suddenly rushed from among the water grass , seized the pollywog by his tail , and dragged him down .
12 Peter stared .
13 Could it be that that ugly-looking bug was as dangerous an enemy to the baby Toad as Reddy Fox is to a baby Rabbit ?
14 He began to suspect so , and a little later he knew so , for there was that same little pollywog trying hard to swim and making bad work of it , because he had lost half of his long tail .
15 That set Peter to watching sharper than ever , and presently he discovered that pollywogs have to keep their eyes open quite as much as do baby Rabbits , if they would live to grow up .
16 There were several kinds of queer , ugly-looking bugs forever darting out at the wriggling pollywogs .
17 Hungry-looking fish lay in wait for them , and Longlegs the Blue Heron seemed to have a special liking for them .
18 But the pollywogs were spry , and seemed to have learned to watch out .
19 They seemed to Peter to spend all their time swimming and eating and growing .
20 They grew so fast that it seemed to him that he could almost see them grow .
21 And just imagine how surprised Peter was to discover one day that that very pollywog which he had seen lose his XXXXX had grown a new one .	tail		bit|bug|course|danger|half|kindergarten|one|tail|thing|way

1 It 's important . ''
2 `` Well , it 's a straight road .
3 That 's Albemarle Street down there -- follow it till it takes you out to the country , and then keep straight on till you come to a church painted yellow and white .
4 Turn to your right , and over the hill is Hopedale .
5 But you 'd better wait for me .
6 You do n't look fit to walk five miles . ''
7 But Chester was off .
8 Walk five miles !
9 Pooh !
10 He could walk twenty with hope to lure him on .
11 Albemarle Street finally frayed off into a real country road .
12 Chester was glad to find himself out in the country once more , with the great golden fields basking on either side and the wooded hills beyond , purple with haze .
13 He had grown to hate the town with its cold , unheeding faces .
14 It was good to breathe clear air again and feel the soft , springy soil of the ferny roadside under his tired little feet .
15 Long before the five miles were covered , Chester began to wonder if he would hold out to the end of them .
16 He had to stop and rest frequently , when those queer dizzy spells came on .
17 His feet seemed like lead .
18 But he kept doggedly on .
19 He would not give in now !
20 The white and yellow church was the most welcome sight that had ever met his eyes .
21 Over the XXXXX he met a man and inquired the way to Mount Hope Farm .	hill		church|end|fields|fit|haze|hill|miles|soil|spells|town

1 Then the King said to her , ' I will appoint a tournament in your honour , and I will invite all the princes in the world to it , and if any one of them pleases you , you shall marry him . '
2 In the evening the Princess told this to the Crab , who said to her , ` Take this rod , go to the garden gate and knock with it , then a black man will come out and say to you , '' Why have you called me , and what do you require of me ? ''
3 Answer him thus : ` Your master the King has sent me hither to tell you to send him his golden armour and his steed and the silver apple . ''
4 And bring them to me . '
5 The Princess did so , and brought him what he desired .
6 The following evening the Prince dressed himself for the tournament .
7 Before he went he said to his wife , ` Now mind you do not say when you see me that I am the Crab .
8 For if you do this evil will come of it .
9 Place yourself at the window with your sisters ; I will ride by and throw you the silver apple .
10 Take it in your hand , but if they ask you who I am , say that you do not know . '
11 So saying , he kissed her , repeated his warning once more , and went away .
12 The Princess went with her sisters to the window and looked on at the tournament .
13 Presently her husband rode by and threw the apple up to her .
14 She caught it in her hand and went with it to her room , and by-and-by her husband came back to her .
15 But her father was much surprised that she did not seem to care about any of the Princes ; he therefore appointed a second tournament .
16 The Crab then gave his wife the same directions as before , only this time the apple which she received from the black man was of gold .
17 But before the Prince went to the tournament he said to his wife , ` Now I know you will betray me to-day . '
18 But she swore to him that she would not tell who he was .
19 He then repeated his warning and went away .
20 In the evening , while the Princess , with her mother and sisters , was standing at the window , the Prince suddenly galloped past on his steed and threw her the golden apple .
21 Then her XXXXX flew into a passion , gave her a box on the ear , and cried out , ` Does not even that prince please you , you fool ? '	mother		apple|armour|hand|man|master|mother|rod|room|tournament|window

1 So he took the best horse in the stable and set out .
2 Three years he spent travelling through forests and wildernesses , but could find no one able to tell him anything of the Princess .
3 At last he fell into so great despair that he thought he would put an end to his own life , and for this purpose laid hold of the sword that she had given him by the hands of the fair-haired lad ; but on drawing it from its sheath he noticed that there was some writing on one side of the blade .
4 He looked at this , and read there , ` You will find me in the Blue Mountains . '
5 This made him take heart again , and he gave up the idea of killing himself , thinking that he would go on in hope of meeting some one who could tell him where the Blue Mountains were .
6 After he had gone a long way without thinking where he was going , he saw at last a light far away , and made straight for it .
7 On reaching it he found it came from a little house , and as soon as the man inside heard the noise of the horse 's feet he came out to see who was there .
8 Seeing a stranger on horseback , he asked what brought him there and where he was going . '
9 I have lived here , ' said he , ` for three hundred years , and all that time I have not seen a single human being but yourself . ' '
10 I have been going about for the last three years , ' said the Irishman , ` to see if I could find anyone who can tell me where the Blue Mountains are . '
11 ` Come in , ' said the old man , ` and stay with me all night .
12 I have a book which contains the history of the world , which I shall go through to-night , and if there is such a place as the Blue Mountains in it we shall find it out . '
13 The Irishman stayed there all night , and as soon as morning came rose to go .
14 The old man said he had not gone to sleep all night for going through the book , but there was not a word about the Blue Mountains in it .
15 ` But I 'll tell you what , ' he said , ` if there is such a place on earth at all , I have a brother who lives nine hundred miles from here , and he is sure to know where they are , if anyone in this world does . '
16 The Irishman answered that he could never go these nine hundred miles , for his horse was giving in already .
17 ` That does n't matter , ' said the old man ; ' I can do better than that .
18 I have only to blow my whistle and you will be at my brother 's house before nightfall . '
19 So he blew the whistle , and the Irishman did not know where on earth he was until he found himself at the other old man 's door , who also told him that it was three hundred years since he had seen anyone , and asked him where he was going . '
20 I am going to see if I can find anyone that can tell me where the Blue Mountains are , ' he said .
21 ` If you will stay with me to-night , ' said the old man , ' I have a book of the history of the world , and I shall know where they are before daylight , if there is such a XXXXX in it at all . '	place		door|earth|heart|hope|man|noise|place|time|way|word

1 A bright idea came into Alice 's head .
2 ` Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here ? '
3 she asked .
4 ` Yes , that 's it , ' said the Hatter with a sigh : ` it 's always tea-time , and we 've no time to wash the things between whiles . '
5 ` Then you keep moving round , I suppose ? '
6 said Alice .
7 ` Exactly so , ' said the Hatter : ` as the things get used up . '
8 ` But what happens when you come to the beginning again ? '
9 Alice ventured to ask .
10 ` Suppose we change the subject , ' the March Hare interrupted , yawning .
11 ` I 'm getting tired of this .
12 I vote the young lady tells us a story . '
13 ` I 'm afraid I do n't know one , ' said Alice , rather alarmed at the proposal .
14 ` Then the Dormouse shall ! '
15 they both cried .
16 ` Wake up , Dormouse ! '
17 And they pinched it on both sides at once .
18 The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes . '
19 I was n't asleep , ' he said in a hoarse , feeble voice : ' I heard every word you fellows were saying . '
20 ` Tell us a story ! '
21 said the XXXXX Hare .	March		March|eyes|fellows|head|idea|proposal|round|things|time|voice

1 `` Something is coming uphill , '' said Mother Wolf , twitching one ear .
2 `` Get ready . ''
3 The bushes rustled a little in the thicket , and Father Wolf dropped with his haunches under him , ready for his leap .
4 Then , if you had been watching , you would have seen the most wonderful thing in the world -- the wolf checked in mid-spring .
5 He made his bound before he saw what it was he was jumping at , and then he tried to stop himself .
6 The result was that he shot up straight into the air for four or five feet , landing almost where he left ground .
7 `` Man ! ''
8 he snapped .
9 `` A man 's cub .
10 Look ! ''
11 Directly in front of him , holding on by a low branch , stood a naked brown baby who could just walk -- as soft and as dimpled a little atom as ever came to a wolf 's cave at night .
12 He looked up into Father Wolf 's face , and laughed .
13 `` Is that a man 's cub ? ''
14 said Mother Wolf .
15 `` I have never seen one .
16 Bring it here . ''
17 A Wolf accustomed to moving his own cubs can , if necessary , mouth an egg without breaking it , and though Father Wolf 's jaws closed right on the child 's back not a tooth even scratched the skin as he laid it down among the cubs .
18 `` How little !
19 How naked , and -- how bold ! ''
20 said Mother Wolf softly .
21 The XXXXX was pushing his way between the cubs to get close to the warm hide .	baby		Something|air|atom|baby|cave|ground|jaws|mouth|result|thicket

1 They all sat down at once , in a large ring , with the Mouse in the middle .
2 Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it , for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon .
3 ` Ahem ! '
4 said the Mouse with an important air , ` are you all ready ?
5 This is the driest thing I know .
6 Silence all round , if you please !
7 `` William the Conqueror , whose cause was favoured by the pope , was soon submitted to by the English , who wanted leaders , and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest .
8 Edwin and Morcar , the earls of Mercia and Northumbria -- '' ' ` Ugh ! '
9 said the Lory , with a shiver . '
10 I beg your pardon ! '
11 said the Mouse , frowning , but very politely : ` Did you speak ? '
12 ` Not I ! '
13 said the Lory hastily . '
14 I thought you did , ' said the Mouse . '
15 -- I proceed .
16 `` Edwin and Morcar , the earls of Mercia and Northumbria , declared for him : and even Stigand , the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury , found it advisable -- '' ' ` Found WHAT ? '
17 said the Duck .
18 ` Found IT , ' the Mouse replied rather crossly : ` of course you know what `` it '' means . ' '
19 I know what `` it '' means well enough , when I find a thing , ' said the Duck : ` it 's generally a frog or a worm .
20 The question is , what did the archbishop find ? '
21 The Mouse did not notice this XXXXX , but hurriedly went on , ' '' -- found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown .	question		Mouse|Silence|Ugh|archbishop|cause|conquest|frog|middle|question|thing

1 And she hated to think of seeing Chester go .
2 He looked more like Johnny than ever , as he stood there with his flushed face and wistful eyes .
3 `` Chester , '' she said gravely , `` I leave it to you to decide .
4 If you think you ought to go back to your aunt , well and good .
5 If not , you shall stay here . ''
6 This was the hardest yet .
7 Chester wished she had not left the decision to him .
8 It was like cutting off his own hand .
9 But he spoke up manfully .
10 `` I -- I think I ought to go back , Miss Salome , and I want to pay back the money , too . ''
11 `` I think so , too , Chester , although I 'm sorry as sorry can be .
12 I 'll go back to Upton with you .
13 We 'll start tomorrow .
14 If , when we get there , your aunt is willing to let you stay with me , you can come back . ''
15 `` There 's a big chance of that ! ''
16 said Clemantiny sourly .
17 `` A woman 's likely to give up a boy like Chester -- a good , steady worker and as respectful and obliging as there is between this and sunset -- very likely , is n't she !
18 Well , this taffy is all burnt to the saucepan and clean ruined -- but what 's the odds !
19 All I hope , Salome Whitney , is that the next time you adopt a boy and let him twine himself ` round a person 's heart , you 'll make sure first that you are going to stick to it .
20 I do n't like having my affections torn up by the roots . ''
21 Clemantiny seized the XXXXX and disappeared with it into the pantry amid a whirl of pungent smoke .	saucepan		affections|aunt|eyes|face|heart|money|person|roots|saucepan|taffy

1 What happiness that was !
2 The whole night and the whole day the pot was made to boil ; there was not a fire-place in the whole town where they did not know what was being cooked , whether it was at the chancellor 's or at the shoemaker 's .
3 The ladies-in-waiting danced and clapped their hands .
4 ` We know who is going to have soup and pancakes ; we know who is going to have porridge and sausages -- is n't it interesting ? '
5 ` Yes , very interesting ! '
6 said the first lady-in-waiting .
7 ` But do n't say anything about it , for I am the Emperor 's daughter . '
8 ` Oh , no , of course we wo n't ! '
9 said everyone .
10 The Swineherd -- that is to say , the Prince -LRB- though they did not know he was anything but a true Swineherd -RRB- -- let no day pass without making something , and one day he made a rattle which , when it was turned round , played all the waltzes , galops , and polkas which had ever been known since the world began .
11 ` But that is superbe ! '
12 said the Princess as she passed by . '
13 I have never heard a more beautiful composition .
14 Listen !
15 Go down and ask him what this instrument costs ; but I wo n't kiss him again . '
16 ` He wants a hundred kisses from the Princess , ' said the lady-in-waiting who had gone down to ask him . '
17 I believe he is mad ! '
18 said the Princess , and then she went on ; but she had only gone a few steps when she stopped .
19 ` One ought to encourage art , ' she said . '
20 I am the Emperor 's daughter !
21 Tell him he shall have , as before , ten XXXXX ; the rest he can take from my ladies-in-waiting . '	kisses		anything|art|composition|course|daughter|day|kisses|round|soup|town

1 We are going to celebrate a marriage to-day , and I promise you we shall have plenty of fun .
2 Come and enjoy yourself , but in order that my brothers may n't see you , put this band round your waist and then you 'll be invisible . '
3 With these words he handed the Herd-boy a belt , and walking on in front he led him to a fountain where hundreds of Giants and Giantesses were assembled preparing to hold a wedding .
4 They danced and played different games till midnight ; then one of the Giants tore up a plant by its roots , and all the Giants and Giantesses made themselves so thin that they disappeared into the earth through the hole made by the uprooting of the plant .
5 The wounded Giant remained behind to the last and called out , ` Herd-boy , where are you ? '
6 ` Here I am , close to you , ' was the reply .
7 ` Touch me , ' said the Giant , ` so that you too may come with us under ground . '
8 The Herd-boy did as he was told , and before he could have believed it possible he found himself in a big hall , where even the walls were made of pure gold .
9 Then to his astonishment he saw that the hall was furnished with the tables and chairs that belonged to his master .
10 In a few minutes the company began to eat and drink .
11 The banquet was a very gorgeous one , and the poor youth fell to and ate and drank lustily .
12 When he had eaten and drunk as much as he could he thought to himself , ` Why should n't I put a loaf of bread in my pocket ?
13 I shall be glad of it to-morrow . '
14 So he seized a loaf when no one was looking and stowed it away under his tunic .
15 No sooner had he done so than the wounded Giant limped up to him and whispered softly , ` Herd-boy , where are you ? '
16 ` Here I am , ' replied the youth .
17 ` Then hold on to me , ' said the Giant , ` so that I may lead you up above again . '
18 So the Herd-boy held on to the Giant , and in a few moments he found himself on the earth once more , but the Giant had vanished .
19 The Herd-boy returned to his sheep , and took off the invisible belt which he hid carefully in his bag .
20 The next morning the lad felt hungry , and thought he would cut off a piece of the loaf he had carried away from the Giants ' wedding feast , and eat it .
21 But although he tried with all his might , he could n't cut off the smallest XXXXX .	piece		belt|company|front|hall|piece|plant|tables|walls|wedding|youth

1 The Prince sought for her in vain , and at last in despair sat down on a big stone and contemplated his sad fate .
2 As he sat thus lost in thought , he noticed an eagle flying over his head .
3 Then he suddenly bethought him of his little bell , and taking it out of his pocket he rang it once .
4 In a moment he heard a rustling sound in the air beside him , and the King of the Eagles sank at his feet . '
5 I know what you want of me , ' the bird said .
6 ` You are looking for the Mother Dragon 's mare who is galloping about among the clouds .
7 I will summon all the eagles of the air together , and order them to catch the mare and bring her to you . '
8 And with these words the King of the Eagles flew away .
9 Towards evening the Prince heard a mighty rushing sound in the air , and when he looked up he saw thousands of eagles driving the mare before them .
10 They sank at his feet on to the ground and gave the mare over to him .
11 Then the Prince rode home to the old Mother Dragon , who was full of wonder when she saw him , and said , ` You have succeeded to-day in looking after my mare , and as a reward you shall come to my ball to-night . '
12 She gave him at the same time a cloak made of copper , and led him to a big room where several young he-dragons and she-dragons were dancing together .
13 Here , too , was the Flower Queen 's beautiful daughter .
14 Her dress was woven out of the most lovely flowers in the world , and her complexion was like lilies and roses .
15 As the Prince was dancing with her he managed to whisper in her ear , ' I have come to set you free ! '
16 Then the beautiful girl said to him , ` If you succeed in bringing the mare back safely the third day , ask the Mother Dragon to give you a foal of the mare as a reward . '
17 The ball came to an end at midnight , and early next morning the Prince again led the Mother Dragon 's mare out into the meadow .
18 But again she vanished before his eyes .
19 Then he took out his little bell and rang it twice .
20 In a moment the King of the Foxes stood before him and said : ' I know already what you want , and will summon all the foxes of the world together to find the mare who has hidden herself in a hill . '
21 With these XXXXX the King of the Foxes disappeared , and in the evening many thousand foxes brought the mare to the Prince .	words		bird|complexion|eagle|ear|end|girl|mare|sound|wonder|words

1 he shrieked , springing back .
2 ` Yes , now I have seen him ; he looked just like our sexton .
3 Oh , it was horrid ! '
4 So he had to drink again , and they drank till far on into the night .
5 ` You MUST sell me the wizard , ' said the farmer .
6 ` Ask anything you like !
7 I will pay you down a bushelful of money on the spot . '
8 ` No , I really ca n't , ' said Little Klans .
9 ` Just think how many things I can get from this wizard ! '
10 ` Ah !
11 I should like to have him so much ! '
12 said the farmer , begging very hard .
13 ` Well ! '
14 said Little Klaus at last , ` as you have been so good as to give me shelter to-night , I will sell him .
15 You shall have the wizard for a bushel of money , but I must have full measure . '
16 ` That you shall , ' said the farmer .
17 ` But you must take the chest with you .
18 I wo n't keep it another hour in the house .
19 Who knows that he is n't in there still ? '
20 Little Klaus gave the farmer his sack with the dry skin , and got instead a good bushelful of money .
21 The farmer also gave him a wheelbarrow to carry away his money and the XXXXX .	chest		anything|chest|farmer|house|money|sexton|shelter|spot|things|wizard

1 said Billy and the troop horse together , and I could hear them stamp and shiver .
2 An elephant 's trumpeting is always nasty , especially on a dark night .
3 `` I sha n't stop , '' said Two Tails .
4 `` Wo n't you explain that , please ?
5 Hhrrmph !
6 Rrrt !
7 Rrrmph !
8 Rrrhha ! ''
9 Then he stopped suddenly , and I heard a little whimper in the dark , and knew that Vixen had found me at last .
10 She knew as well as I did that if there is one thing in the world the elephant is more afraid of than another it is a little barking dog .
11 So she stopped to bully Two Tails in his pickets , and yapped round his big feet .
12 Two Tails shuffled and squeaked .
13 `` Go away , little dog ! ''
14 he said .
15 `` Do n't snuff at my ankles , or I 'll kick at you .
16 Good little dog -- nice little doggie , then !
17 Go home , you yelping little beast !
18 Oh , why does n't someone take her away ?
19 She 'll bite me in a minute . ''
20 `` Seems to me , '' said Billy to the troop horse , `` that our friend Two Tails is afraid of most things .
21 Now , if I had a full meal for every dog I 've kicked across the parade-ground I should be as fat as Two XXXXX nearly . ''	Tails		Tails|ankles|beast|bully|dog|elephant|home|someone|thing|world

1 But they were too much frightened to answer .
2 Then the Lake said , ` You do well to be afraid , for it is at your peril that you are come hither .
3 Our king , who has seven heads , is now asleep , but in a few minutes he will wake up and come to me to take his bath !
4 Woe to anyone who meets him in the garden , for it is impossible to escape from him .
5 This is what you must do if you wish to save your lives .
6 Take off your clothes and spread them on the path which leads from here to the castle .
7 The King will then glide over something soft , which he likes very much , and he will be so pleased with that that he will not devour you .
8 He will give you some punishment , but then he will let you go . '
9 The men did as the Lake advised them , and waited for a time .
10 At noon the earth began to quake , and opened in many places , and out of the openings appeared lions , tigers , and other wild beasts , which surrounded the castle , and thousands and thousands of beasts came out of the castle following their king , the Seven-headed Serpent .
11 The Serpent glided over the clothes which were spread for him , came to the Lake , and asked it who had strewed those soft things on the path ?
12 The Lake answered that it had been done by people who had come to do him homage .
13 The King commanded that the men should be brought before him .
14 They came humbly on their knees , and in a few words told him their story .
15 Then he spoke to them with a mighty and terrible voice , and said , ` Because you have dared to come here , I lay upon you the punishment .
16 Every year you must bring me from among your people twelve youths and twelve maidens , that I may devour them .
17 If you do not do this , I will destroy your whole nation . '
18 Then he desired one of his beasts to show the men the way out of the garden , and dismissed them .
19 They then left the island and went back to their own country , where they related what had happened to them .
20 Soon the time came round when the king of the beasts would expect the youths and maidens to be brought to him .
21 The King therefore issued a proclamation inviting twelve youths and twelve maidens to offer themselves up to save their country ; and immediately many young XXXXX , far more than enough , hastened to do so .	people		Serpent|bath|garden|lives|maidens|path|people|punishment|story|youths

1 ` He can judge best what the cloth is like , for he has intellect , and no one understands his office better than he . '
2 Now the good old minister went into the hall where the two impostors sat working at the empty weaving-looms .
3 ` Dear me ! '
4 thought the old minister , opening his eyes wide , ' I can see nothing ! '
5 But he did not say so .
6 Both the impostors begged him to be so kind as to step closer , and asked him if it were not a beautiful texture and lovely colours .
7 They pointed to the empty loom , and the poor old minister went forward rubbing his eyes ; but he could see nothing , for there was nothing there .
8 ` Dear , dear ! '
9 thought he , ` can I be stupid ?
10 I have never thought that , and nobody must know it !
11 Can I be not fit for my office ?
12 No , I must certainly not say that I can not see the cloth ! '
13 ` Have you nothing to say about it ? '
14 asked one of the men who was weaving .
15 ` Oh , it is lovely , most lovely ! '
16 answered the old minister , looking through his spectacles .
17 ` What a texture !
18 What colours !
19 Yes , I will tell the Emperor that it pleases me very much . '
20 ` Now we are delighted at that , ' said both the weavers , and thereupon they named the colours and explained the make of the texture .
21 The old XXXXX paid great attention , so that he could tell the same to the Emperor when he came back to him , which he did .	minister		cloth|eyes|hall|make|men|minister|nobody|one|spectacles|texture

1 And the Soldier liked that .
2 But as he was always spending money , and never made any more , at last the day came when he had nothing left but two shillings , and he had to leave the beautiful rooms in which he had been living , and go into a little attic under the roof , and clean his own boots , and mend them with a darning-needle .
3 None of his friends came to visit him there , for there were too many stairs to climb .
4 It was a dark evening , and he could not even buy a light .
5 But all at once it flashed across him that there was a little end of tinder in the tinder-box , which he had taken from the hollow tree into which the Witch had helped him down .
6 He found the box with the tinder in it ; but just as he was kindling a light , and had struck a spark out of the tinder-box , the door burst open , and the dog with eyes as large as saucers , which he had seen down in the tree , stood before him and said : ` What does my lord command ? '
7 ` What 's the meaning of this ? '
8 exclaimed the Soldier .
9 ` This is a pretty kind of tinder-box , if I can get whatever I want like this .
10 Get me money ! '
11 he cried to the dog , and hey , presto !
12 he was off and back again , holding a great purse full of money in his mouth .
13 Now the Soldier knew what a capital tinder-box this was .
14 If he rubbed once , the dog that sat on the chest of copper appeared ; if he rubbed twice , there came the dog that watched over the silver chest ; and if he rubbed three times , the one that guarded the gold appeared .
15 Now , the Soldier went down again to his beautiful rooms , and appeared once more in splendid clothes .
16 All his friends immediately recognised him again , and paid him great court .
17 One day he thought to himself : ` It is very strange that no one can get to see the Princess .
18 They all say she is very pretty , but what 's the use of that if she has to sit for ever in the great copper castle with all the towers ?
19 Can I not manage to see her somehow ?
20 Where is my tinder-box ? '
21 and so he struck a spark , and , XXXXX !	presto		None|box|capital|court|presto|roof|rooms|shillings|stairs|tinder

1 It must be more than that !
2 What had happened ?
3 Had she made a fool of herself ?
4 Ought she to have behaved in any other way ?
5 Perhaps Spencer had come out to look for her after she had gone upstairs and , not finding her , had gone back to Miss LeMar to show her he was angry .
6 This poor hope was a small comfort .
7 She wished she had not acted as she had .
8 It looked spiteful and jealous , and Spencer did not like people who were spiteful and jealous .
9 She would show him she was sorry when he came back , and it would be all right .
10 She lay awake most of the night , thinking out plausible reasons and excuses for Spencer 's behaviour , and trying to convince herself that she had exaggerated everything absurdly .
11 Towards morning she fell asleep and awoke hardly remembering what had happened .
12 Then it rolled back upon her crushingly .
13 But she rose and dressed in better spirits .
14 It had been hardest to lie there and do nothing .
15 Now the day was before her and something pleasant might happen .
16 Spencer might come back in the evening .
17 She would be doubly nice to him to make up .
18 Mrs. Bowes looked sharply at her niece 's dull eyes and pale cheeks at the breakfast table .
19 She had her own thoughts of things .
20 She was a large , handsome woman with a rather harsh face .
21 `` Did you go upstairs last night and leave Spencer Morgan with XXXXX LeMar ? ''	Miss		Miss|Ought|day|face|niece|nothing|people|reasons|spirits|way

1 `` I 'll have to dispose of him in the fall for I 've no place to keep him in , and anyway I could n't afford to feed him .
2 I 'll see if I can borrow Mr. Griggs 's express wagon for Saturday afternoons , and if I can those poor factory children in my grade shall have a weekly treat or my name is not Cordelia Herry .
3 I 'm not so sure but that John Drew has done a good thing after all .
4 Poor John !
5 He always did take things so for granted . ''
6 * * * * * All the point pleasant people soon knew about Miss Cordelia 's questionable windfall , and she was overwhelmed with advice and suggestions .
7 She listened to all tranquilly and then placidly followed her own way .
8 Mr. Griggs was very obliging in regard to his old express wagon , and the next Saturday Point Pleasant was treated to a mild sensation -- nothing less than Miss Cordelia rattling through the village , enthroned on the high seat of Mr. Griggs 's yellow express wagon , drawn by old Nap who , after a week of browsing idleness in the four-acre field , was quite frisky and went at a decided amble down Elm Street and across the bridge .
9 The long wagon had been filled up with board seats , and when Miss Cordelia came back over the bridge the boards were crowded with factory children -- pale-faced little creatures whose eyes were aglow with pleasure at this unexpected outing .
10 Miss Cordelia drove straight out to the big pine-clad hills of Deepdale , six miles from Pottstown .
11 Then she tied Nap in a convenient lane and turned the children loose to revel in the woods and fields .
12 How they did enjoy themselves !
13 And how Miss Cordelia enjoyed seeing them enjoy themselves !
14 When dinner time came she gathered them all around her and went to the wagon .
15 In it she had a basket of bread and butter .
16 `` I ca n't afford anything more , '' she told Cynthia Ann , `` but they must have something to stay their little stomachs .
17 And I can get some water at a farmhouse . ''
18 Miss Cordelia had had her eye on a certain farmhouse all the morning .
19 She did not know anything about the people who lived there , but she liked the looks of the place .
20 It was a big , white , green-shuttered house , throned in wide-spreading orchards , with a green sweep of velvety lawn in front .
21 To this Miss Cordelia took her XXXXX , surrounded by her small passengers , and they all trooped into the great farmhouse yard just as a big man stepped out of a nearby barn .	way		Nap|house|lane|looks|people|point|suggestions|sweep|way|woods

1 So I have resolved to put myself out of my pain by means of the Golden Fountain .
2 A single drop of its water falling on the sand around will trace the name of my rival in her heart .
3 I dread the test , and yet this very dread convinces me of my misfortune . '
4 It may be imagined that after listening to these words the Invisible Prince followed Prince Gnome like his shadow , and after walking some time they arrived at the Golden Fountain .
5 The unhappy lover stooped down with a sigh , and dipping his finger in the water let fall a drop on the sand .
6 It instantly wrote the name of Prince Flame , his brother .
7 The shock of this discovery was so real , that Prince Gnome sank fainting into the arms of his friend .
8 Meanwhile the Invisible Prince was turning over in his mind how he could best deliver Rosalie .
9 As , since he had been touched by the Giant 's ring , he had the power to live in the water as well as on land , he at once dived into the fountain .
10 He perceived in one corner a door leading into the mountain , and at the foot of the mountain was a high rock on which was fixed an iron ring with a cord attached .
11 The Prince promptly guessed that the cord was used to chain the Princess , and drew his sword and cut it .
12 In a moment he felt the Princess 's hand in his , for she had always kept her magic pebble in her mouth , in spite of the prayers and entreaties of the Prince of the Air to make herself visible .
13 So hand in hand the invisible Prince and Rosalie crossed the mountain ; but as the Princess had no power of living under water , she could not pass the Golden Fountain .
14 Speechless and invisible they clung together on the brink , trembling at the frightful tempest the Prince of the Air had raised in his fury .
15 The storm had already lasted many days when tremendous heat began to make itself felt .
16 The lightning flashed , the thunder rattled , fire bolts fell from heaven , burning up the forests and even the fields of corn .
17 In one instant the very streams were dried up , and the Prince , seizing his opportunity , carried the Princess over the Golden Fountain .
18 It took them a long time still to reach the Golden Isle , but at last they got there , and we may be quite sure they never wanted to leave it any more .
19 THE CROW -LRB- 13 -RRB- -LRB- 13 -RRB- From the Polish .
20 Kletke .
21 Once upon a XXXXX there were three Princesses who were all three young and beautiful ; but the youngest , although she was not fairer than the other two , was the most loveable of them all .	time		Gnome|drop|fury|hand|lover|prayers|sand|shadow|time|water

1 You must be careful that the rolls last till our return . '
2 And Waska took leave of her beloved master , and set off with Schurka on their journey .
3 On and on they travelled , looking always to right and left for traces of the Princess , following up every track , making inquiries of every cat and dog they met , listening to the talk of every wayfarer they passed ; and at last they heard that the kingdom at the utmost ends of the earth where the twelve youths had borne the Princess was not very far off .
4 And at last one day they reached that distant kingdom , and , going at once to the palace , they began to make friends with all the dogs and cats in the place , and to question them about the Princess and the magic ring ; but no one could tell them much about either .
5 Now one day it chanced that Waska had gone down to the palace cellar to hunt for mice and rats , and seeing an especially fat , well-fed mouse , she pounced upon it , buried her claws in its soft fur , and was just going to gobble it up , when she was stopped by the pleading tones of the little creature , saying , ` If you will only spare my life I may be of great service to you .
6 I will do everything in my power for you ; for I am the King of the Mice , and if I perish the whole race will die out . '
7 ` So be it , ' said Waska . '
8 I will spare your life ; but in return you must do something for me .
9 In this castle there lives a Princess , the wicked wife of my dear master .
10 She has stolen away his magic ring .
11 You must get it away from her at whatever cost ; do you hear ?
12 Till you have done this I wo n't take my claws out of your fur . '
13 ` Good ! '
14 replied the mouse ; ' I will do what you ask . '
15 And , so saying , he summoned all the mice in his kingdom together .
16 A countless number of mice , small and big , brown and grey , assembled , and formed a circle round their king , who was a prisoner under Waska 's claws .
17 Turning to them he said : ` Dear and faithful subjects , who ever among you will steal the magic ring from the strange Princess will release me from a cruel death ; and I shall honour him above all the other mice in the kingdom . '
18 Instantly a tiny mouse stepped forward and said : ' I often creep about the Princess 's bedroom at night , and I have noticed that she has a ring which she treasures as the apple of her eye .
19 All day she wears it on her finger , and at night she keeps it in her mouth .
20 I will undertake , sire , to steal away the ring for you . '
21 And the tiny XXXXX tripped away into the bedroom of the Princess , and waited for nightfall ; then , when the Princess had fallen asleep , it crept up on to her bed , and gnawed a hole in the pillow , through which it dragged one by one little down feathers , and threw them under the Princess 's nose .	mouse		claws|cost|day|dogs|mouse|one|power|race|return|youths

1 Those who remained alive now went on through the forest and found on the other side of it a beautiful garden , in which all the plants of the world flourished together .
2 There were also in the garden three springs : the first flowed with silver , the second with gold , and the third with pearls .
3 The men unbuckled their knapsacks and filled them with those precious things .
4 In the middle of the garden they found a large lake , and when they reached the edge of it the Lake began to speak , and said to them , ` What men are you , and what brings you here ?
5 Are you come to visit our king ? '
6 But they were too much frightened to answer .
7 Then the Lake said , ` You do well to be afraid , for it is at your peril that you are come hither .
8 Our king , who has seven heads , is now asleep , but in a few minutes he will wake up and come to me to take his bath !
9 Woe to anyone who meets him in the garden , for it is impossible to escape from him .
10 This is what you must do if you wish to save your lives .
11 Take off your clothes and spread them on the path which leads from here to the castle .
12 The King will then glide over something soft , which he likes very much , and he will be so pleased with that that he will not devour you .
13 He will give you some punishment , but then he will let you go . '
14 The men did as the Lake advised them , and waited for a time .
15 At noon the earth began to quake , and opened in many places , and out of the openings appeared lions , tigers , and other wild beasts , which surrounded the castle , and thousands and thousands of beasts came out of the castle following their king , the Seven-headed Serpent .
16 The Serpent glided over the clothes which were spread for him , came to the Lake , and asked it who had strewed those soft things on the path ?
17 The Lake answered that it had been done by people who had come to do him homage .
18 The King commanded that the men should be brought before him .
19 They came humbly on their knees , and in a few words told him their story .
20 Then he spoke to them with a mighty and terrible voice , and said , ` Because you have dared to come here , I lay upon you the punishment .
21 Every year you must bring me from among your XXXXX twelve youths and twelve maidens , that I may devour them .	people		bath|forest|gold|heads|king|men|middle|people|plants|side

1 I am dying for want of food and drink . '
2 ` Come inside , then , ' she said ; ` there is plenty of both here . '
3 Accordingly he went in to where she was , and she opened a large room for him , where he saw a number of men lying asleep .
4 She then set food before him , and after that showed him to the room where the others were .
5 He lay down on one of the beds and fell sound asleep .
6 And now we must go back to the two that he left behind him in the wood .
7 When nightfall and the time of the wild beasts came upon these , the Englishman happened to climb up into the very same tree on which the Scotsman was when he got a sight of the castle ; and as soon as the day began to dawn and the Englishman looked to the four quarters of heaven , what did he see but the castle too !
8 Off he went without saying a word to the Irishman , and everything happened to him just as it had done to the Scotsman .
9 The poor Irishman was now left all alone , and did not know where the others had gone to , so he just stayed where he was , very sad and miserable .
10 When night came he climbed up into the same tree as the Englishman had been on the night before .
11 As soon as day came he also saw the castle , and set out towards it ; but when he reached it he could see no signs of fire or living being about it .
12 Before long , however , he heard the window opened above his head , looked up , and beheld the most beautiful woman he had ever seen .
13 He asked if she would give him food and drink , and she answered kindly and heartily that she would , if he would only come inside .
14 This he did very willingly , and she set before him food and drink that he had never seen the like of before .
15 In the room there was a bed , with diamond rings hanging at every loop of the curtains , and everything that was in the room besides astonished him so much that he actually forgot that he was hungry .
16 When she saw that he was not eating at all , she asked him what he wanted yet , to which he replied that he would neither eat nor drink until he knew who she was , or where she came from , or who had put her there . '
17 I shall tell you that , ' said she . '
18 I am an enchanted Princess , and my father has promised that the man who releases me from the spell shall have the third of his kingdom while he is alive , and the whole of it after he is dead , and marry me as well .
19 If ever I saw a man who looked likely to do this , you are the one .
20 I have been here for sixteen years now , and no one who ever came to the castle has asked me who I was , except yourself .
21 Every other XXXXX that has come , so long as I have been here , lies asleep in the big room down there . '	man		beds|castle|drink|head|man|signs|spell|time|woman|wood

1 The King could not hide his amazement , but at the same time his wrath increased , and he was more ready than ever to believe the two brothers , who kept on repeating that Ferko was nothing more nor less than a wicked magician .
2 Only the beautiful Princess rejoiced over Ferko 's success , and looked on him with friendly glances , which the youth returned .
3 The more the cruel King gazed on the wonder before him , the more angry he became , for he could not , in the face of his promise , put the stranger to death .
4 He turned once more to the two brothers and said , ` His diabolical magic has helped him again , but now what third task shall we set him to do ?
5 No matter how impossible it is , he must do it or die . '
6 The eldest answered quickly , ` Let him drive all the wolves of the kingdom on to this hill before to-morrow night .
7 If he does this he may go free ; if not he shall be hung as you have said . '
8 At these words the Princess burst into tears , and when the King saw this he ordered her to be shut up in a high tower and carefully guarded till the dangerous magician should either have left the kingdom or been hung on the nearest tree .
9 Ferko wandered out into the fields again , and sat down on the stump of a tree wondering what he should do next .
10 Suddenly a big wolf ran up to him , and standing still said , ` I 'm very glad to see you again , my kind benefactor .
11 What are you thinking about all alone by yourself ?
12 If I can help you in any way only say the word , for I would like to give you a proof of my gratitude . '
13 Ferko at once recognised the wolf whose broken leg he had healed , and told him what he had to do the following day if he wished to escape with his life .
14 ` But how in the world , ' he added , ` am I to collect all the wolves of the kingdom on to that hill over there ? '
15 ` If that 's all you want done , ' answered the wolf , ` you need n't worry yourself .
16 I 'll undertake the task , and you 'll hear from me again before sunset to-morrow .
17 Keep your spirits up . '
18 And with these words he trotted quickly away .
19 Then the youth rejoiced greatly , for now he felt that his life was safe ; but he grew very sad when he thought of the beautiful Princess , and that he would never see her again if he left the country .
20 He lay down once more on the grass and soon fell fast asleep .
21 All the next day he spent wandering about the XXXXX , and toward evening the wolf came running to him in a great hurry and said , ' I have collected together all the wolves in the kingdom , and they are waiting for you in the wood .	fields		brothers|fields|glances|grass|nothing|stump|task|time|way|world

1 A camel had blundered into it , and wet and angry as I was , I could not help laughing .
2 Then I ran on , because I did not know how many camels might have got loose , and before long I was out of sight of the camp , plowing my way through the mud .
3 At last I fell over the tail-end of a gun , and by that knew I was somewhere near the artillery lines where the cannon were stacked at night .
4 As I did not want to plowter about any more in the drizzle and the dark , I put my waterproof over the muzzle of one gun , and made a sort of wigwam with two or three rammers that I found , and lay along the tail of another gun , wondering where Vixen had got to , and where I might be .
5 Just as I was getting ready to go to sleep I heard a jingle of harness and a grunt , and a mule passed me shaking his wet ears .
6 He belonged to a screw-gun battery , for I could hear the rattle of the straps and rings and chains and things on his saddle pad .
7 The screw-guns are tiny little cannon made in two pieces , that are screwed together when the time comes to use them .
8 They are taken up mountains , anywhere that a mule can find a road , and they are very useful for fighting in rocky country .
9 Behind the mule there was a camel , with his big soft feet squelching and slipping in the mud , and his neck bobbing to and fro like a strayed hen 's .
10 Luckily , I knew enough of beast language -- not wild-beast language , but camp-beast language , of course -- from the natives to know what he was saying .
11 He must have been the one that flopped into my tent , for he called to the mule , `` What shall I do ?
12 Where shall I go ?
13 I have fought with a white thing that waved , and it took a stick and hit me on the neck . ''
14 -LRB- That was my broken tent pole , and I was very glad to know it . -RRB-
15 `` Shall we run on ? ''
16 `` Oh , it was you , '' said the mule , `` you and your friends , that have been disturbing the camp ?
17 All right .
18 You 'll be beaten for this in the morning .
19 But I may as well give you something on account now . ''
20 I heard the harness jingle as the mule backed and caught the camel two kicks in the ribs that rang like a drum .
21 `` Another XXXXX , '' he said , `` you 'll know better than to run through a mule battery at night , shouting ` Thieves and fire ! '	time		feet|friends|harness|mule|ribs|sight|sort|tail|time|waterproof

1 `` I am now teaching him the Master Words of the Jungle that shall protect him with the birds and the Snake People , and all that hunt on four feet , except his own pack .
2 He can now claim protection , if he will only remember the words , from all in the jungle .
3 Is not that worth a little beating ? ''
4 `` Well , look to it then that thou dost not kill the man-cub .
5 He is no tree trunk to sharpen thy blunt claws upon .
6 But what are those Master Words ?
7 I am more likely to give help than to ask it '' -- Bagheera stretched out one paw and admired the steel-blue , ripping-chisel talons at the end of it -- `` still I should like to know . ''
8 `` I will call Mowgli and he shall say them -- if he will .
9 Come , Little Brother ! ''
10 `` My head is ringing like a bee tree , '' said a sullen little voice over their heads , and Mowgli slid down a tree trunk very angry and indignant , adding as he reached the ground : `` I come for Bagheera and not for thee , fat old Baloo ! ''
11 `` That is all one to me , '' said Baloo , though he was hurt and grieved .
12 `` Tell Bagheera , then , the Master Words of the Jungle that I have taught thee this day . ''
13 `` Master Words for which people ? ''
14 said Mowgli , delighted to show off .
15 `` The jungle has many tongues .
16 I know them all . ''
17 `` A little thou knowest , but not much .
18 See , O Bagheera , they never thank their teacher .
19 Not one small wolfling has ever come back to thank old Baloo for his teachings .
20 Say the word for the Hunting-People , then -- great scholar . ''
21 `` We be of one blood , ye and I , '' said Mowgli , giving the XXXXX the Bear accent which all the Hunting People use .	words		O|beating|end|help|jungle|paw|protection|talons|word|words

1 Outside in the brook grew many water-lilies , with broad green leaves , which looked as if they were swimming about on the water .
2 The leaf farthest away was the largest , and to this the old toad swam with Thumbelina in her walnut-shell .
3 The tiny Thumbelina woke up very early in the morning , and when she saw where she was she began to cry bitterly ; for on every side of the great green leaf was water , and she could not get to the land .
4 The old toad was down under the marsh , decorating her room with rushes and yellow marigold leaves , to make it very grand for her new daughter-in-law ; then she swam out with her ugly son to the leaf where Thumbelina lay .
5 She wanted to fetch the pretty cradle to put it into her room before Thumbelina herself came there .
6 The old toad bowed low in the water before her , and said : ` Here is my son ; you shall marry him , and live in great magnificence down under the marsh . '
7 ` Croak , croak , croak ! '
8 was all that the son could say .
9 Then they took the neat little cradle and swam away with it ; but Thumbelina sat alone on the great green leaf and wept , for she did not want to live with the clammy toad , or marry her ugly son .
10 The little fishes swimming about under the water had seen the toad quite plainly , and heard what she had said ; so they put up their heads to see the little girl .
11 When they saw her , they thought her so pretty that they were very sorry she should go down with the ugly toad to live .
12 No ; that must not happen .
13 They assembled in the water round the green stalk which supported the leaf on which she was sitting , and nibbled the stem in two .
14 Away floated the leaf down the stream , bearing Thumbelina far beyond the reach of the toad .
15 On she sailed past several towns , and the little birds sitting in the bushes saw her , and sang , ` What a pretty little girl ! '
16 The leaf floated farther and farther away ; thus Thumbelina left her native land .
17 A beautiful little white butterfly fluttered above her , and at last settled on the leaf .
18 Thumbelina pleased him , and she , too , was delighted , for now the toads could not reach her , and it was so beautiful where she was travelling ; the sun shone on the water and made it sparkle like the brightest silver .
19 She took off her sash , and tied one end round the butterfly ; the other end she fastened to the leaf , so that now it glided along with her faster than ever .
20 A great cockchafer came flying past ; he caught sight of Thumbelina , and in a moment had put his arms round her slender waist , and had flown off with her to a tree .
21 The green leaf floated away down the XXXXX , and the butterfly with it , for he was fastened to the leaf and could not get loose from it .	stream		butterfly|girl|land|magnificence|marsh|moment|sight|stream|toad|waist

1 He was in his shirt sleeves and wore a big straw hat , and seemed in nowise disconcerted thereby .
2 Corona introduced him , and he took Grey Tom away and put him in the barn .
3 Then he went back to his sweet peas .
4 He had had his tea , he said , so that Frances did not see him again until she went home .
5 She thought he was a very indifferent young man , and not half so nice as his sister .
6 But she went and sat up with Jacky Hart that night , getting to the Cove at dark , when the sea was a shimmer of fairy tints and the boats were coming in from the fishing grounds .
7 Jacky greeted her with a wonderful smile , and later on she found herself watching alone by his bed .
8 The tiny lamp on the table burned dim , and outside , on the rocks , there was loud laughing and talking until a late hour .
9 Afterwards a silence fell , through which the lap of the waves on the sands and the far-off moan of the Atlantic surges came sonorously .
10 Jacky was restless and wakeful , but did not suffer , and liked to talk .
11 Frances listened to him with a new-born power of sympathy , which she thought she must have caught from Corona .
12 He told her all the tragedy of his short life , and how bad he felt , about Dad 's taking to drink and Mammy 's having to work so hard .
13 The pitiful little sentences made Frances 's heart ache .
14 The maternal instinct of the true woman awoke in her .
15 She took a sudden liking to the child .
16 He was a spiritual little creature , and his sufferings had made him old and wise .
17 Once in the night he told Frances that he thought the angels must look like her .
18 `` You are so sweet pretty , '' he said gravely .
19 `` I never saw anyone so pretty , not even Miss C'rona .
20 You look like a picture I once saw on Mr. Sherwood 's table when I was up at the manse one day ` fore I got so bad I could n't walk .
21 It was a XXXXX with a li'l baby in her arms and a kind of rim round her head .	woman		angels|barn|half|home|picture|sentences|sister|sufferings|tea|woman

1 Just as the horsemen were about to ford the river , a hare , startled by the sound of the horses ' hoofs , started up from the grass and ran towards the thicket .
2 The young Prince pursued the little creature , and had almost overtaken it , when the girth of his saddle suddenly broke in two and he fell heavily to the ground .
3 No sooner had his foot touched the earth than he disappeared before the eyes of the horrified courtiers .
4 They sought for him far and near , but all in vain , and they were forced to recognise the power of the evil Fairy , against which the Queen had warned them on her death-bed .
5 The old King was much grieved when they brought him the news of his son 's disappearance , but as he could do nothing to free him from his fate , he gave himself up to an old age of grief and loneliness , cherishing at the same time the hope that some lucky chance might one day deliver the youth out of the hands of his enemy .
6 Hardly had the Prince touched the ground than he felt himself violently seized by an unseen power , and hurried away he knew not whither .
7 A whole new world stretched out before him , quite unlike the one he had left .
8 A splendid castle surrounded by a huge lake was the abode of the Fairy , and the only approach to it was over a bridge of clouds .
9 On the other side of the lake high mountains rose up , and dark woods stretched along the banks ; over all hung a thick mist , and deep silence reigned everywhere .
10 No sooner had the Fairy reached her own domain than she made herself visible , and turning to the Prince she told him that unless he obeyed all her commands down to the minutest detail he would be severely punished .
11 Then she gave him an axe made of glass , and bade him cross the bridge of clouds and go into the wood beyond and cut down all the trees there before sunset .
12 At the same time she cautioned him with many angry words against speaking to a black girl he would most likely meet in the wood .
13 The Prince listened to her words meekly , and when she had finished took up the glass axe and set out for the forest .
14 At every step he seemed to sink into the clouds , but fear gave wings to his feet , and he crossed the lake in safety and set to work at once .
15 But no sooner had he struck the first blow with his axe than it broke into a thousand pieces against the tree .
16 The poor youth was so terrified he did not know what to do , for he was in mortal dread of the punishment the wicked old Fairy would inflict on him .
17 He wandered to and fro in the wood , not knowing where he was going , and at last , worn out by fatigue and misery , he sank on the ground and fell fast asleep .
18 He did not know how long he had slept when a sudden sound awoke him , and opening his eyes he saw a black girl standing beside him .
19 Mindful of the Fairy 's warning he did not dare to address her , but she on her part greeted him in the most friendly manner , and asked him at once if he were under the power of the wicked Fairy .
20 The Prince nodded his head silently in answer .
21 Then the black XXXXX told him that she too was in the power of the Fairy , who had doomed her to wander about in her present guise until some youth should take pity on her and bear her in safety to the other side of the river which they saw in the distance , and on the other side of which the Fairy 's domain and power ended .	girl		approach|blow|disappearance|eyes|girl|horsemen|news|nothing|punishment|youth

1 In a moment the King of the Fishes appeared , and said to him : ' I know quite well what you want me to do , and I will summon all the fishes of the sea together , and tell them to bring you back the mare , who is hiding herself in a river . '
2 Towards evening the mare was returned to him , and when he led her home to the Mother Dragon she said to him : ` You are a brave youth , and I will make you my body-servant .
3 But what shall I give you as a reward to begin with ? '
4 The Prince begged for a foal of the mare , which the Mother Dragon at once gave him , and over and above , a cloak made of gold , for she had fallen in love with him because he had praised her beauty .
5 So in the evening he appeared at the ball in his golden cloak ; but before the entertainment was over he slipped away , and went straight to the stables , where he mounted his foal and rode out into the meadow to wait for the Flower Queen 's daughter .
6 Towards midnight the beautiful girl appeared , and placing her in front of him on his horse , the Prince and she flew like the wind till they reached the Flower Queen 's dwelling .
7 But the dragons had noticed their flight , and woke their brother out of his year 's sleep .
8 He flew into a terrible rage when he heard what had happened , and determined to lay siege to the Flower Queen 's palace ; but the Queen caused a forest of flowers as high as the sky to grow up round her dwelling , through which no one could force a way .
9 When the Flower Queen heard that her daughter wanted to marry the Prince , she said to him : ' I will give my consent to your marriage gladly , but my daughter can only stay with you in summer .
10 In winter , when everything is dead and the ground covered with snow , she must come and live with me in my palace underground . '
11 The Prince consented to this , and led his beautiful bride home , where the wedding was held with great pomp and magnificence .
12 The young couple lived happily together till winter came , when the Flower Queen 's daughter departed and went home to her mother .
13 In summer she returned to her husband , and their life of joy and happiness began again , and lasted till the approach of winter , when the Flower Queen 's daughter went back again to her mother .
14 This coming and going continued all her life long , and in spite of it they always lived happily together .
15 THE FLYING SHIP -LRB- 24 -RRB- -LRB- 24 -RRB- From the Russian .
16 Once upon a time there lived an old couple who had three sons ; the two elder were clever , but the third was a regular dunce .
17 The clever sons were very fond of their mother , gave her good clothes , and always spoke pleasantly to her ; but the youngest was always getting in her way , and she had no patience with him .
18 Now , one day it was announced in the village that the King had issued a decree , offering his daughter , the Princess , in marriage to whoever should build a ship that could fly .
19 Immediately the two elder brothers determined to try their luck , and asked their parents ' blessing .
20 So the old mother smartened up their clothes , and gave them a store of provisions for their journey , not forgetting to add a bottle of brandy .
21 When they had gone the poor Simpleton began to tease his XXXXX to smarten him up and let him start off .	mother		Flower|blessing|clothes|daughter|flight|mare|mother|rage|summer|youth

1 But remember , Akela is very old , and soon the day comes when he can not kill his buck , and then he will be leader no more .
2 Many of the wolves that looked thee over when thou wast brought to the Council first are old too , and the young wolves believe , as Shere Khan has taught them , that a man-cub has no place with the Pack .
3 In a little time thou wilt be a man . ''
4 `` And what is a man that he should not run with his brothers ? ''
5 said Mowgli .
6 `` I was born in the jungle .
7 I have obeyed the Law of the Jungle , and there is no wolf of ours from whose paws I have not pulled a thorn .
8 Surely they are my brothers ! ''
9 Bagheera stretched himself at full length and half shut his eyes .
10 `` Little Brother , '' said he , `` feel under my jaw . ''
11 Mowgli put up his strong brown hand , and just under Bagheera 's silky chin , where the giant rolling muscles were all hid by the glossy hair , he came upon a little bald spot .
12 `` There is no one in the jungle that knows that I , Bagheera , carry that mark -- the mark of the collar ; and yet , Little Brother , I was born among men , and it was among men that my mother died -- in the cages of the king 's palace at Oodeypore .
13 It was because of this that I paid the price for thee at the Council when thou wast a little naked cub .
14 Yes , I too was born among men .
15 I had never seen the jungle .
16 They fed me behind bars from an iron pan till one night I felt that I was Bagheera -- the Panther -- and no man 's plaything , and I broke the silly lock with one blow of my paw and came away .
17 And because I had learned the ways of men , I became more terrible in the jungle than Shere Khan .
18 Is it not so ? ''
19 `` Yes , '' said Mowgli , `` all the jungle fear Bagheera -- all except Mowgli . ''
20 `` Oh , thou art a man 's cub , '' said the Black Panther very tenderly .
21 `` And even as I returned to my XXXXX , so thou must go back to men at last -- to the men who are thy brothers -- if thou art not killed in the Council . ''	jungle		Council|bars|chin|jungle|length|place|price|thorn|time|wolves

1 Tell me his nest and his name .
2 Rikki , the valiant , the true , Tikki , with eyeballs of flame , Rikk-tikki-tikki , the ivory-fanged , the hunter with eyeballs of flame !
3 Give him the Thanks of the Birds , Bowing with tail feathers spread !
4 Praise him with nightingale words -- Nay , I will praise him instead .
5 Hear !
6 I will sing you the praise of the bottle-tailed Rikki , with eyeballs of red !
7 -LRB- Here Rikki-tikki interrupted , and the rest of the song is lost . -RRB-
8 Toomai of the Elephants I will remember what I was , I am sick of rope and chain -- I will remember my old strength and all my forest affairs .
9 I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar-cane : I will go out to my own kind , and the wood-folk in their lairs .
10 I will go out until the day , until the morning break -- Out to the wind 's untainted kiss , the water 's clean caress ; I will forget my ankle-ring and snap my picket stake .
11 I will revisit my lost loves , and playmates masterless !
12 Kala Nag , which means Black Snake , had served the Indian Government in every way that an elephant could serve it for forty-seven years , and as he was fully twenty years old when he was caught , that makes him nearly seventy -- a ripe age for an elephant .
13 He remembered pushing , with a big leather pad on his forehead , at a gun stuck in deep mud , and that was before the Afghan War of 1842 , and he had not then come to his full strength .
14 His mother Radha Pyari , -- Radha the darling , -- who had been caught in the same drive with Kala Nag , told him , before his little milk tusks had dropped out , that elephants who were afraid always got hurt .
15 Kala Nag knew that that advice was good , for the first time that he saw a shell burst he backed , screaming , into a stand of piled rifles , and the bayonets pricked him in all his softest places .
16 So , before he was twenty-five , he gave up being afraid , and so he was the best-loved and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of India .
17 He had carried tents , twelve hundred pounds ' weight of tents , on the march in Upper India .
18 He had been hoisted into a ship at the end of a steam crane and taken for days across the water , and made to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India , and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in Magdala , and had come back again in the steamer entitled , so the soldiers said , to the Abyssinian War medal .
19 He had seen his fellow elephants die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid , ten years later ; and afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles south to haul and pile big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein .
20 There he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was shirking his fair share of work .
21 After that he was taken off timber-hauling , and employed , with a few score other XXXXX who were trained to the business , in helping to catch wild elephants among the Garo hills .	elephants		day|drive|elephants|eyeballs|nest|rope|service|tents|time|way

1 All the trees of the wood were cut up into firewood and arranged in bundles ready for use .
2 He returned to the castle as quickly as he could , and told the Fairy that her commands were obeyed .
3 She was even more amazed than she had been before , and asked him again if he had either seen or spoken to the black girl ; but the Prince knew better than to betray his word , and once more lied freely .
4 On the following day the Fairy set him a third task to do , even harder than the other two .
5 She told him he must build a castle on the other side of the lake , made of nothing but gold , silver , and precious stones , and unless he could accomplish this within an hour , the most frightful doom awaited him .
6 The Prince heard her words without anxiety , so entirely did he rely on the help of his black friend .
7 Full of hope he hurried across the bridge , and recognised at once the spot where the castle was to stand , for spades , hammers , axes , and every other building implement lay scattered on the ground ready for the workman 's hand , but of gold , silver , and precious stones there was not a sign .
8 But before the Prince had time to feel despondent the black girl beckoned to him in the distance from behind a rock , where she had hidden herself for fear her mother should catch sight of her .
9 Full of joy the youth hurried towards her , and begged her aid and counsel in the new piece of work he had been given to do .
10 But this time the Fairy had watched the Prince 's movements from her window , and she saw him hiding himself behind the rock with her daughter .
11 She uttered a piercing shriek so that the mountains re-echoed with the sound of it , and the terrified pair had hardly dared to look out from their hiding-place when the enraged woman , with her dress and hair flying in the wind , hurried over the bridge of clouds .
12 The Prince at once gave himself up for lost , but the girl told him to be of good courage and to follow her as quickly as he could .
13 But before they left their shelter she broke off a little bit of the rock , spoke some magic words over it , and threw it in the direction her mother was coming from .
14 In a moment a glittering palace arose before the eyes of the Fairy which blinded her with its dazzling splendour , and with its many doors and passages prevented her for some time from finding her way out of it .
15 In the meantime the black girl hurried on with the Prince , hastening to reach the river , where once on the other side they would for ever be out of the wicked Fairy 's power .
16 But before they had accomplished half the way they heard again the rustle of her garments and her muttered curses pursuing them closely .
17 The Prince was terrified ; he dared not look back , and he felt his strength giving way .
18 But before he had time to despair the girl uttered some more magic words , and immediately she herself was changed into a pond , and the Prince into a duck swimming on its surface .
19 When the Fairy saw this her rage knew no bounds , and she used all her magic wits to make the pond disappear ; she caused a hill of sand to arise at her feet , meaning it to dry up the water at once .
20 But the sand hill only drove the pond a little farther away , and its waters seemed to increase instead of diminishing .
21 When the old XXXXX saw that the powers of her magic were of so little avail , she had recourse to cunning .	woman		bundles|direction|dress|garments|meantime|rustle|shelter|sight|woman|workman

1 `` If he is living still , he 'll be able to tell you . ''
2 `` How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him ? ''
3 said Kotick , sheering off .
4 `` He 's the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch , '' screamed a Burgomaster gull , wheeling under Sea Vitch 's nose .
5 `` Uglier , and with worse manners !
6 Stareek ! ''
7 Kotick swam back to Novastoshnah , leaving the gulls to scream .
8 There he found that no one sympathized with him in his little attempt to discover a quiet place for the seals .
9 They told him that men had always driven the holluschickie -- it was part of the day 's work -- and that if he did not like to see ugly things he should not have gone to the killing grounds .
10 But none of the other seals had seen the killing , and that made the difference between him and his friends .
11 Besides , Kotick was a white seal .
12 `` What you must do , '' said old Sea Catch , after he had heard his son 's adventures , `` is to grow up and be a big seal like your father , and have a nursery on the beach , and then they will leave you alone .
13 In another five years you ought to be able to fight for yourself . ''
14 Even gentle Matkah , his mother , said : `` You will never be able to stop the killing .
15 Go and play in the sea , Kotick . ''
16 And Kotick went off and danced the Fire-dance with a very heavy little heart .
17 That autumn he left the beach as soon as he could , and set off alone because of a notion in his bullet-head .
18 He was going to find Sea Cow , if there was such a person in the sea , and he was going to find a quiet island with good firm beaches for seals to live on , where men could not get at them .
19 So he explored and explored by himself from the North to the South Pacific , swimming as much as three hundred miles in a day and a night .
20 He met with more adventures than can be told , and narrowly escaped being caught by the Basking Shark , and the Spotted Shark , and the Hammerhead , and he met all the untrustworthy ruffians that loaf up and down the seas , and the heavy polite fish , and the scarlet spotted scallops that are moored in one place for hundreds of years , and grow very proud of it ; but he never met Sea Cow , and he never found an island that he could fancy .
21 If the XXXXX was good and hard , with a slope behind it for seals to play on , there was always the smoke of a whaler on the horizon , boiling down blubber , and Kotick knew what that meant .	beach		beach|fancy|father|miles|sea|seal|seals|son|thing|work

1 He bit the bread a second and third time , and each time a piece of gold fell out of his mouth ; but the bread remained untouched .
2 The Herd-boy was very much delighted over his stroke of good fortune , and , hiding the magic loaf in his bag , he hurried off to the nearest village to buy himself something to eat , and then returned to his sheep .
3 Now the Lord whose sheep the Herd-boy looked after had a very lovely daughter , who always smiled and nodded to the youth when she walked with her father in his fields .
4 For a long time the Herd-boy had made up his mind to prepare a surprise for this beautiful creature on her birthday .
5 So when the day approached he put on his invisible belt , took a sack of gold pieces with him , and slipping into her room in the middle of the night , he placed the bag of gold beside her bed and returned to his sheep .
6 The girl 's joy was great , and so was her parents ' next day when they found the sack full of gold pieces .
7 The Herd-boy was so pleased to think what pleasure he had given that the next night he placed another bag of gold beside the girl 's bed .
8 And this he continued to do for seven nights , and the girl and her parents made up their minds that it must be a good Fairy who brought the gold every night .
9 But one night they determined to watch , and see from their hiding place who the bringer of the sack of gold really was .
10 On the eighth night a fearful storm of wind and rain came on while the Herd-boy was on his way to bring the beautiful girl another bag of gold .
11 Then for the first time he noticed , just as he reached his master 's house , that he had forgotten the belt which made him invisible .
12 He did n't like the idea of going back to his hut in the wind and wet , so he just stepped as he was into the girl 's room , laid the sack of gold beside her , and was turning to leave the room , when his master confronted him and said , ` You young rogue , so you were going to steal the gold that a good Fairy brings every night , were you ? '
13 The Herd-boy was so taken aback by his words , that he stood trembling before him , and did not dare to explain his presence .
14 Then his master spoke .
15 ` As you have hitherto always behaved well in my service I will not send you to prison ; but leave your place instantly and never let me see your face again . '
16 So the Herd-boy went back to his hut , and taking his loaf and belt with him , he went to the nearest town .
17 There he bought himself some fine clothes , and a beautiful coach with four horses , hired two servants , and drove back to his master .
18 You may imagine how astonished he was to see his Herd-boy returning to him in this manner !
19 Then the youth told him of the piece of good luck that had befallen him , and asked him for the hand of his beautiful daughter .
20 This was readily granted , and the two lived in peace and happiness to the end of their lives .
21 THE INVISIBLE PRINCE Once upon a time there lived a Fairy who had power over the earth , the sea , fire , and the air ; and this XXXXX had four sons .	Fairy		Fairy|bag|fortune|horses|master|night|peace|place|presence|servants

1 As she worked , the door opened and Vivienne LeMar walked or , rather , reeled into the room .
2 Estella dropped the book she held and gazed at her as one in a dream .
3 The actress 's face was flushed and her hair was wildly disordered .
4 Her eyes glittered with an unearthly light .
5 She was talking incoherently .
6 The air was heavy with the fumes of brandy .
7 Estella laughed hysterically .
8 Vivienne LeMar was grossly intoxicated .
9 This woman whom Spencer Morgan worshipped , for whom he had forsaken her , was reeling about the room , laughing idiotically , talking wildly in a thick voice .
10 If he could but see her now !
11 Estella turned white with the passion of the wild idea that had come to her .
12 Spencer Morgan should see this woman in her true colours .
13 She lost no time .
14 Swiftly she left the room and locked the door behind her on the maudlin , babbling creature inside .
15 Then she flung a shawl over her head and ran from the house .
16 It was not far to the Morgan homestead .
17 She ran all the way , hardly knowing what she was doing .
18 Mrs. Morgan answered her knock .
19 She gazed in bewilderment at Estella 's wild face .
20 `` I want Spencer , '' said the girl through her white lips .
21 The elder XXXXX stepped back in dumb amazement .	woman		actress|book|door|eyes|face|hair|idea|light|time|woman

1 ` And how can I do that ? '
2 asked the Prince .
3 ` With a little water , ' replied the man ; ` only sprinkle a few drops over me and I shall feel better . '
4 The Prince , moved by pity , without thinking what he was doing , ran to the courtyard of the castle , and filled a jug with water , which he poured over the man in the cauldron .
5 In a moment a most fearful crash was heard , as if all the pillars of the palace were giving way , and the palace itself , with towers and doors , windows and the cauldron , whirled round the bewildered Prince 's head .
6 This continued for a few minutes , and then everything vanished into thin air , and Iwanich found himself suddenly alone upon a desolate heath covered with rocks and stones .
7 The Prince , who now realised what his heedlessness had done , cursed too late his spirit of curiosity .
8 In his despair he wandered on over the heath , never looking where he put his feet , and full of sorrowful thoughts .
9 At last he saw a light in the distance , which came from a miserable-looking little hut .
10 The owner of it was none other than the kind-hearted gaunt grey beggar who had given the Prince the bag of bread-crumbs and the hare .
11 Without recognising Iwanich , he opened the door when he knocked and gave him shelter for the night .
12 On the following morning the Prince asked his host if he could get him any work to do , as he was quite unknown in the neighbourhood , and had not enough money to take him home .
13 ` My son , ' replied the old man , ` all this country round here is uninhabited ; I myself have to wander to distant villages for my living , and even then I do not very often find enough to satisfy my hunger .
14 But if you would like to take service with the old witch Corva , go straight up the little stream which flows below my hut for about three hours , and you will come to a sand-hill on the left-hand side ; that is where she lives . '
15 Iwanich thanked the gaunt grey beggar for his information , and went on his way .
16 After walking for about three hours the Prince came upon a dreary-looking grey stone wall ; this was the back of the building and did not attract him ; but when he came upon the front of the house he found it even less inviting , for the old witch had surrounded her dwelling with a fence of spikes , on every one of which a man 's skull was stuck .
17 In this horrible enclosure stood a small black house , which had only two grated windows , all covered with cobwebs , and a battered iron door .
18 The Prince knocked , and a rasping woman 's voice told him to enter .
19 Iwanich opened the door , and found himself in a smoke-begrimed kitchen , in the presence of a hideous old woman who was warming her skinny hands at a fire .
20 The Prince offered to become her servant , and the old hag told him she was badly in want of one , and he seemed to be just the person to suit her .
21 When Iwanich asked what his XXXXX , and how much his wages would be , the witch bade him follow her , and led the way through a narrow damp passage into a vault , which served as a stable .	work		cobwebs|courtyard|door|feet|none|presence|rocks|servant|water|work

1 Of course this means that Aunt Martha has discovered everything and the deserved punishment of my sins has overtaken me .
2 I slipped away again this afternoon and went for that boat sail .
3 We had a lovely time but were rather late getting in , and I hurried home with many misgivings .
4 Aunt Martha met me at the door .
5 My dress was draggled , my hat had slipped back , and the kinks and curls of my obstreperous hair were something awful .
6 I know I looked very disreputable and also , no doubt , very guilty and conscience-stricken .
7 Aunt gave me an unutterable look and then followed me up to my room in grim silence .
8 `` Marguer_ite , what does this mean ? ''
9 I have lots of faults , but untruthfulness is n't one of them .
10 I confessed everything -- at least , almost everything .
11 I did n't tell about the telescopes and deaf-mute alphabet , and Aunt was too horror-stricken to think of asking how I first made Mr. Shelmardine 's acquaintance .
12 She listened in stony silence .
13 I had expected a terrible scolding , but I suppose my crimes simply seemed to her too enormous for words .
14 When I had sobbed out my last word she rose , swept me one glance of withering contempt , and left the room .
15 Presently Mrs. Saxby came up , looking concerned .
16 `` My dear child , what have you been doing ?
17 Your aunt says that we are to go home on the afternoon train tomorrow .
18 She is terribly upset . ''
19 I just curled up on the bed and cried , while Mrs. Saxby packed my trunk .
20 I will have no chance to explain matters to Mr. Shelmardine .
21 And I will never see him again , for XXXXX is quite capable of whisking me off to Africa .	Aunt		Aunt|Mrs.|course|crimes|hair|home|room|telescopes|time|words

1 When they arrived there they went at once to the Lake , and this time the lions did not stir , nor did the springs flow , and neither did the Lake speak .
2 So they waited then , and it was not long before the earth quaked even more terribly than the first time .
3 The Seven-headed Serpent came without his train of beasts , saw his prey waiting for him , and devoured it at one mouthful .
4 Then the ship 's crew returned home , and the same thing happened yearly until many years had passed .
5 Now the King of this unhappy country was growing old , and so was the Queen , and they had no children .
6 One day the Queen was sitting at the window weeping bitterly because she was childless , and knew that the crown would therefore pass to strangers after the King 's death .
7 Suddenly a little old woman appeared before her , holding an apple in her hand , and said , ` Why do you weep , my Queen , and what makes you so unhappy ? '
8 ` Alas , good mother , ' answered the Queen , ' I am unhappy because I have no children . '
9 ` Is that what vexes you ? '
10 said the old woman .
11 ` Listen to me .
12 I am a nun from the Spinning Convent , -LRB- 10 -RRB- and my mother when she died left me this apple .
13 Whoever eats this apple shall have a child . '
14 -LRB- 10 -RRB- Convent Gnothi .
15 The Queen gave money to the old woman , and bought the apple from her .
16 Then she peeled it , ate it , and threw the rind out of the window , and it so happened that a mare that was running loose in the court below ate up the rind .
17 After a time the Queen had a little boy , and the mare also had a male foal .
18 The boy and the foal grew up together and loved each other like brothers .
19 In course of time the King died , and so did the Queen , and their son , who was now nineteen years old , was left alone .
20 One day , when he and his horse were talking together , the Horse said to him , ` Listen to me , for I love you and wish for your good and that of the country .
21 If you go on every year sending twelve youths and twelve maidens to the King of the Beasts , your XXXXX will very soon be ruined .	country		Horse|Serpent|child|country|crew|hand|money|mother|strangers|woman

1 Mr. Toad kept on his way , and presently he met Peter Rabbit .
2 Peter stopped to gossip , as is his way .
3 But Old Mr. Toad took no notice of him at all .
4 He kept right on with his head high , and all puffed out .
5 Peter might have been a stick or a stone for all the notice Old Mr. Toad took of him .
6 Peter looked puzzled .
7 Then he hurried down to tell Danny Meadow Mouse about it .
8 `` Oh , '' said Danny , `` he 's been to dine with Buster Bear , and now he has no use for his old friends . ''
9 Pretty soon along came Johnny Chuck , and he was very much put out because he had been treated by Old Mr. Toad just as Peter Rabbit had .
10 Striped Chipmunk told the same story .
11 So did Unc ' Billy Possum .
12 It was the same with all of Old Mr. Toad 's old friends and neighbors , excepting Bobby Coon , who , you know , is Buster Bear 's little cousin .
13 To him Old Mr. Toad was very polite and talked a great deal about Buster Bear , and thought that Bobby must be very proud to be related to Buster .
14 At first everybody thought it a great joke to see Old Mr. Toad so puffed up with , pride , but after a little they grew tired of being snubbed by their old friend and neighbor , and began to say unpleasant things about him .
15 Then they decided that what Old Mr. Toad needed was a lesson , so they put their heads together and planned how they would teach Old Mr. Toad how foolish it is for any one to be puffed up with pride .
16 XXI OLD MR. TOAD RECEIVES ANOTHER INVITATION The friends and neighbors of Old Mr. Toad decided that he needed to be taught a lesson .
17 At first , you know , every one had laughed at him , because he had grown too proud to speak to them , but after a little they grew tired of being treated so , and some of them put their heads together to think of some plan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson and what a very , very foolish thing false pride is .
18 The very next day Jimmy Skunk went into the Green Forest to look for Buster Bear .
19 You know Jimmy is n't afraid of Buster .
20 He did n't have to look long , and when he had found him , the very first thing he did was to ask Buster if he had seen any fat beetles that morning .
21 You know Jimmy is very fond of fat XXXXX , and the first thing he asks any one he may happen to meet is if they have seen any .	beetles		Mr.|Striped|beetles|friend|heads|joke|neighbor|pride|stone|thing

1 At first they all kept together , but soon each began to think that he knew the right way best ; so they separated , and all went in different directions .
2 The Prince , too , had got lost like the rest , and wandered on for a time until he came to a little clearing in the forest not far from the sea , where he saw a woman sitting on a chair and a big barrel standing beside her .
3 The Prince went up to her and saluted her politely , and she received him very graciously .
4 He looked down into the barrel then , and saw lying at the bottom an unusually beautiful gold ring , which pleased him so much that he could not take his eyes off it .
5 The woman saw this , and said that he might have it if he would take the trouble to get it ; for which the Prince thanked her , and said it was at least worth trying .
6 So he leaned over into the barrel , which did not seem very deep , and thought he would easily reach the ring ; but the more he stretched down after it the deeper grew the barrel .
7 As he was thus bending down into it the woman suddenly rose up and pushed him in head first , saying that now he could take up his quarters there .
8 Then she fixed the top on the barrel and threw it out into the sea .
9 The Prince thought himself in a bad plight now , as he felt the barrel floating out from the land and tossing about on the waves .
10 How many days he spent thus he could not tell , but at last he felt that the barrel was knocking against rocks , at which he was a little cheered , thinking it was probably land and not merely a reef in the sea .
11 Being something of a swimmer , he at last made up his mind to kick the bottom out of the barrel , and having done so he was able to get on shore , for the rocks by the sea were smooth and level ; but overhead there were high cliffs .
12 It seemed difficult to get up these , but he went along the foot of them for a little , till at last he tried to climb up , which at last he did .
13 Having got to the top , he looked round about him and saw that he was on an island , which was covered with forest , with apples growing , and altogether pleasant as far as the land was concerned .
14 After he had been there several days , he one day heard a great noise in the forest , which made him terribly afraid , so that he ran to hide himself among the trees .
15 Then he saw a Giant approaching , dragging a sledge loaded with wood , and making straight for him , so that he could see nothing for it but to lie down just where he was .
16 When the Giant came across him , he stood still and looked at the Prince for a little ; then he took him up in his arms and carried him home to his house , and was exceedingly kind to him .
17 He gave him to his wife , saying he had found this child in the wood , and she could have it to help her in the house .
18 The old woman was greatly pleased , and began to fondle the Prince with the utmost delight .
19 He stayed there with them , and was very willing and obedient to them in everything , while they grew kinder to him every day .
20 One day the Giant took him round and showed him all his rooms except the parlour ; this made the Prince curious to have a look into it , thinking there must be some very rare treasure there .
21 So one day , when the Giant had gone into the XXXXX , he tried to get into the parlour , and managed to get the door open half-way .	forest		foot|forest|home|house|noise|reef|round|shore|time|trees

1 `` I suppose it would , '' said the Girl thoughtfully , `` but then , you know , I wo n't change my mind . ''
2 `` It 's just as well to be on the safe side , '' said the Young Man .
3 The Girl got up .
4 The rain was over and the sun was coming out through the mists .
5 `` Perhaps you are right , '' she said .
6 `` So I 'll just resolve that I will say ` no ' if I do n't want to say ` yes . '
7 That really amounts to the same thing , you know .
8 Thank you so much for letting me tell you all about it .
9 It must have bored you terribly , but it has done me so much good .
10 I feel quite calm and rational now , and can go home and behave myself .
11 Goodbye . ''
12 `` Goodbye , '' said the Young Man gravely .
13 He stood on the pavilion and watched the Girl out of sight beyond the pines .
14 When the Girl got home she was told that the Dalhousie team had won the game , eight to four .
15 The Girl dragged her hat off and waved it joyously .
16 `` What a shame I was n't there !
17 They 'd have gone mad over my dress . ''
18 But the next item of information crushed her .
19 The Creature had arrived .
20 He had called that afternoon , and was coming to dinner that night .
21 `` How fortunate , '' said the Girl , as she went to her room , `` that I relieved my XXXXX to that Young Man out in the park today .	mind		Creature|Girl|dinner|mind|mists|pavilion|rain|shame|side|thing

1 they all said , and the man who had brought the clockwork bird received on the spot the title of ` Bringer of the Imperial First Nightingale . '
2 ` Now they must sing together ; what a duet we shall have ! '
3 And so they sang together , but their voices did not blend , for the real Nightingale sang in her way and the clockwork bird sang waltzes .
4 ` It is not its fault ! '
5 said the bandmaster ; ` it keeps very good time and is quite after my style ! '
6 Then the artificial bird had to sing alone .
7 It gave just as much pleasure as the real one , and then it was so much prettier to look at ; it sparkled like bracelets and necklaces .
8 Three-and-thirty times it sang the same piece without being tired .
9 People would like to have heard it again , but the Emperor thought that the living Nightingale should sing now -- but where was she ?
10 No one had noticed that she had flown out of the open window away to her green woods .
11 ` What SHALL we do ! '
12 said the Emperor .
13 And all the Court scolded , and said that the Nightingale was very ungrateful .
14 ` But we have still the best bird ! '
15 they said and the artificial bird had to sing again , and that was the thirty-fourth time they had heard the same piece .
16 But they did not yet know it by heart ; it was much too difficult .
17 And the bandmaster praised the bird tremendously ; yes , he assured them it was better than a real nightingale , not only because of its beautiful plumage and diamonds , but inside as well .
18 ` For see , my Lords and Ladies and your Imperial Majesty , with the real Nightingale one can never tell what will come out , but all is known about the artificial bird !
19 You can explain it , you can open it and show people where the waltzes lie , how they go , and how one follows the other ! '
20 ` That 's just what we think ! '
21 said everyone ; and the bandmaster received permission to show the XXXXX to the people the next Sunday .	bird		Nightingale|People|SHALL|bird|one|pleasure|title|voices|window|woods

1 `` And have him starving on people 's doorsteps in the meantime ? ''
2 questioned Miss Salome severely .
3 `` Well , '' returned Clemantiny with the air of one who washes her hands of a doubtful proposition , `` do n't blame me if you repent of it . ''
4 By this time Chester had grasped the wonderful fact that his troubles were ended -- for a while , at least .
5 He raised himself up on one arm and looked gratefully at Miss Salome .
6 `` Thank you , '' he said .
7 `` I 'll work hard .
8 I 'm used to doing a lot . ''
9 `` There , there ! ''
10 said Miss Salome , patting his shoulder gently .
11 `` Lie down and rest .
12 Dinner will be ready soon , and I guess you 'll be ready for it . ''
13 To Clemantiny she added in a low , gentle tone , `` There 's a look on his face that reminded me of Johnny .
14 It came out so strong when he sat up just now that it made me feel like crying .
15 Do n't you notice it , Clemantiny ? ''
16 `` Ca n't say that I do , '' replied that energetic person , who was flying about the kitchen with a speed that made Chester 's head dizzy trying to follow her with his eyes .
17 `` All I can see is freckles and bones -- but if you 're satisfied , I am .
18 For law 's sake , do n't fluster me , Salome .
19 There 's a hundred and one things to be done out of hand .
20 This frolic has clean dundered the whole forenoon 's work . ''
21 After dinner Chester decided that it was XXXXX to make himself useful .	time		Dinner|Lie|bones|eyes|face|hand|proposition|rest|speed|time

1 ` You , my wife , the companion of my days , will follow me ere many moons have waned to the island of the blest .
2 But for you , O my children , whose lives are but newly begun , the wickedness , unkindness , and ingratitude from which I fled are before you .
3 Yet I shall go hence in peace , my children , if you will promise always to love each other , and never to forsake your youngest brother .
4 ` Never ! '
5 they replied , holding out their hands .
6 And the hunter died content .
7 Scarcely eight moons had passed when , just as he had said , the wife went forth , and followed her husband ; but before leaving her children she bade the two elder ones think of their promise never to forsake the younger , for he was a child , and weak .
8 And while the snow lay thick upon the ground , they tended him and cherished him ; but when the earth showed green again , the heart of the young man stirred within him , and he longed to see the wigwams of the village where his father 's youth was spent .
9 Therefore he opened all his heart to his sister , who answered : ` My brother , I understand your longing for our fellow-men , whom here we can not see .
10 But remember our father 's words .
11 Shall we not seek our own pleasures , and forget the little one ? '
12 But he would not listen , and , making no reply , he took his bow and arrows and left the hut .
13 The snows fell and melted , yet he never returned ; and at last the heart of the girl grew cold and hard , and her little boy became a burden in her eyes , till one day she spoke thus to him : ` See , there is food for many days to come .
14 Stay here within the shelter of the hut .
15 I go to seek our brother , and when I have found him I shall return hither . '
16 But when , after hard journeying , she reached the village where her brother dwelt , and saw that he had a wife and was happy , and when she , too , was sought by a young brave , then she also forgot the boy alone in the forest , and thought only of her husband .
17 Now as soon as the little boy had eaten all the food which his sister had left him , he went out into the woods , and gathered berries and dug up roots , and while the sun shone he was contented and had his fill .
18 But when the snows began and the wind howled , then his stomach felt empty and his limbs cold , and he hid in trees all the night , and only crept out to eat what the wolves had left behind .
19 And by-and-by , having no other friends , he sought their company , and sat by while they devoured their prey , and they grew to know him , and gave him food .
20 And without them he would have died in the snow .
21 But at last the snows melted , and the ice upon the great lake , and as the wolves went down to the shore , the XXXXX went after them .	boy		Stay|boy|brother|child|companion|fellow-men|hands|longing|peace|sister

1 `` Perhaps you 'll hit on some plan yet to earn that money , and if you do -- well , it will prove that you have good stuff in you . ''
2 `` I think it would , '' laughed Ned to himself , as he trudged away .
3 `` A quiet little farming village in winter is n't exactly a promising field for financial operations . ''
4 At Winterby Corners Ned found a crowd of boys waiting for him , and soon paired off with his chum , Jim Slocum .
5 Jim , as usual , was grumbling because they had to go all the way to Windsor to skate .
6 `` Like as not we 'll get into a free fight with the Windsorites when we get there , and be chevied off the ice , '' he complained .
7 The rivalry which existed between the Carleton and the Windsor boys was bitter and of long standing .
8 `` We ought to be able to hold our own tonight , '' said Ned .
9 `` There 'll be thirty of us there . ''
10 `` If we could only get Old Dutcher to let us skate on his pond ! ''
11 said Jim .
12 `` It would n't hurt his old pond !
13 And the ice is always splendid on it .
14 I 'd give a lot if we could only go there . ''
15 Ned was silent .
16 A sudden idea had come to him .
17 He wondered if it were feasible .
18 `` Anyhow , I 'll try it , '' he said to himself .
19 `` I 'll interview Old Dutcher tomorrow . ''
20 The skating that night was not particularly successful .
21 The small pond at Windsor was crowded , the Windsor boys being out in force and , although no positive disturbance arose , they contrived to make matters unpleasant for the Carletonites , who tramped moodily homeward in no very good humour , most of them declaring that , XXXXX or no skating , they would not go to Windsor again .	skating		Anyhow|fight|ice|idea|lot|plan|rivalry|skating|stuff|tonight

1 At the same moment the walls of the room expanded and opened out , revealing a golden throne covered with jewels .
2 A magnificent Court now began to assemble , and at the same time several elegant carriages filled with ladies in magnificent dresses drove up .
3 In the first and most splendid of these carriages sat Prince Rainbow 's mother .
4 She fondly embraced her son , after which she informed him that his father had been dead for some years , that the anger of the Fairies was at length appeased , and that he might return in peace to reign over his people , who were longing for his presence .
5 The Court received the new King with joyful acclamations which would have delighted him at any other time , but all his thoughts were full of Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
6 He was just about to present her to his mother and the Court , feeling sure that her charms would win all hearts , when the three green and white sisters appeared .
7 They declared the secret of Fairy-than-a-Fairy 's royal birth , and the Queen taking the two lovers in her carriage set off with them for the capital of the kingdom .
8 Here they were received with tumultuous joy .
9 The wedding was celebrated without delay , and succeeding years diminished neither the virtues , beauty , nor the mutual affection of King Rainbow and his Queen , Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
10 THE THREE BROTHERS -LRB- 17 -RRB- -LRB- 17 -RRB- From the Polish .
11 Kletke .
12 There was once upon a time a witch , who in the shape of a hawk used every night to break the windows of a certain village church .
13 In the same village there lived three brothers , who were all determined to kill the mischievous hawk .
14 But in vain did the two eldest mount guard in the church with their guns ; as soon as the bird appeared high above their heads , sleep overpowered them , and they only awoke to hear the windows crashing in .
15 Then the youngest brother took his turn of guarding the windows , and to prevent his being overcome by sleep he placed a lot of thorns under his chin , so that if he felt drowsy and nodded his head , they would prick him and keep him awake .
16 The moon was already risen , and it was as light as day , when suddenly he heard a fearful noise , and at the same time a terrible desire to sleep overpowered him .
17 His eyelids closed , and his head sank on his shoulders , but the thorns ran into him and were so painful that he awoke at once .
18 He saw the hawk swooping down upon the church , and in a moment he had seized his gun and shot at the bird .
19 The hawk fell heavily under a big stone , severely wounded in its right wing .
20 The youth ran to look at it , and saw that a huge abyss had opened below the stone .
21 He went at once to fetch his XXXXX , and with their help dragged a lot of pine-wood and ropes to the spot .	brothers		brothers|carriage|head|noise|peace|people|thorns|virtues|walls|windows

1 `` Best let 'em alone , I say , '' said Wherrison .
2 `` They 're mad at us now and doing this to pay us out .
3 But they 'll cool down later on and we 'll have the social all right . ''
4 `` But if they do n't , '' said Andrew McKittrick gloomily , `` who is going to pay for that carpet ? ''
5 This was an unpleasant question .
6 The others shirked it .
7 `` I was always opposed to this action of the session , '' said Alec Craig .
8 `` It would n't have hurt to have let the woman speak .
9 'T is n't as if it was a regular sermon . ''
10 `` The session knew best , '' said Andrew sharply .
11 `` And the minister -- you 're not going to set your opinion up against his , are you , Craig ? ''
12 `` Did n't know they taught such reverence for ministers in Danbridge , '' retorted Craig with a laugh .
13 `` Best let 'em alone , as Wherrison says , '' said Abner Keech .
14 `` Do n't see what else we can do , '' said John Wilson shortly .
15 * * * * * On Sunday morning the men were conscious of a bare , deserted appearance in the church .
16 Mr. Sinclair perceived it himself .
17 After some inward wondering he concluded that it was because there were no flowers anywhere .
18 The table before the pulpit was bare .
19 On the organ a vase held a sorry , faded bouquet left over from the previous week .
20 The floor was ' unswept .
21 Dust lay thickly on the XXXXX Bible , the choir chairs , and the pew backs .	pulpit		carpet|church|men|minister|opinion|organ|pulpit|question|sermon|session

1 I wish you would have this cat removed ! '
2 The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties , great or small .
3 ` Off with his head ! '
4 she said , without even looking round .
5 ` I 'll fetch the executioner myself , ' said the King eagerly , and he hurried off .
6 Alice thought she might as well go back , and see how the game was going on , as she heard the Queen 's voice in the distance , screaming with passion .
7 She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns , and she did not like the look of things at all , as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not .
8 So she went in search of her hedgehog .
9 The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog , which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other : the only difficulty was , that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden , where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree .
10 By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back , the fight was over , and both the hedgehogs were out of sight : ` but it does n't matter much , ' thought Alice , ` as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground . '
11 So she tucked it away under her arm , that it might not escape again , and went back for a little more conversation with her friend .
12 When she got back to the Cheshire Cat , she was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it : there was a dispute going on between the executioner , the King , and the Queen , who were all talking at once , while all the rest were quite silent , and looked very uncomfortable .
13 The moment Alice appeared , she was appealed to by all three to settle the question , and they repeated their arguments to her , though , as they all spoke at once , she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said .
14 The executioner 's argument was , that you could n't cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from : that he had never had to do such a thing before , and he was n't going to begin at HIS time of life .
15 The King 's argument was , that anything that had a head could be beheaded , and that you were n't to talk nonsense .
16 The Queen 's argument was , that if something was n't done about it in less than no time she 'd have everybody executed , all round .
17 -LRB- It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious . -RRB-
18 Alice could think of nothing else to say but ` It belongs to the Duchess : you 'd better ask HER about it . '
19 ` She 's in prison , ' the Queen said to the executioner : ` fetch her here . '
20 And the executioner went off like an arrow .
21 The Cat 's XXXXX began fading away the moment he was gone , and , by the time he had come back with the Duchess , it had entirely disappeared ; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it , while the rest of the party went back to the game .	head		arguments|body|cat|everybody|friend|ground|head|prison|remark|way

1 ` There she is ! '
2 cried the little girl .
3 ` Listen !
4 She is sitting there ! '
5 And she pointed to a little dark-grey bird up in the branches .
6 ` Is it possible ! '
7 said the First Lord . '
8 I should never have thought it !
9 How ordinary she looks !
10 She must surely have lost her feathers because she sees so many distinguished men round her ! '
11 ` Little Nightingale , ' called out the little kitchenmaid , ` our Gracious Emperor wants you to sing before him ! '
12 ` With the greatest of pleasure ! '
13 said the Nightingale ; and she sang so gloriously that it was a pleasure to listen .
14 ` It sounds like glass bells ! '
15 said the First Lord .
16 ` And look how her little throat works !
17 It is wonderful that we have never heard her before !
18 She will be a great success at Court . '
19 ` Shall I sing once more for the Emperor ? '
20 asked the Nightingale , thinking that the Emperor was there .
21 ` My esteemed little Nightingale , ' said the First Lord , ' I have the great XXXXX to invite you to Court this evening , where His Gracious Imperial Highness will be enchanted with your charming song ! '	pleasure		Gracious|Nightingale|bird|branches|feathers|girl|men|pleasure|success|throat

1 They will rush to eat them up greedily , and when you have scattered the last crumb you must lose no time in throwing the hare to them ; as soon as the hare feels itself on the ground it will run away as quickly as possible , and the wild beasts will turn to pursue it .
2 In this way you will be able to get through the wood unhurt . '
3 Iwanich thanked the old man for his counsel , dismounted from his horse , and , taking the bag and the hare in his arms , he entered the forest .
4 He had hardly lost sight of his gaunt grey friend when he heard growls and snarls in the thicket close to him , and before he had time to think he found himself surrounded by the most dreadful-looking creatures .
5 On one side he saw the glittering eye of a cruel tiger , on the other the gleaming teeth of a great she-wolf ; here a huge bear growled fiercely , and there a horrible snake coiled itself in the grass at his feet .
6 But Iwanich did not forget the old man 's advice , and quickly put his hand into the bag and took out as many bread-crumbs as he could hold in his hand at a time .
7 He threw them to the beasts , but soon the bag grew lighter and lighter , and the Prince began to feel a little frightened .
8 And now the last crumb was gone , and the hungry beasts thronged round him , greedy for fresh prey .
9 Then he seized the hare and threw it to them .
10 No sooner did the little creature feel itself on the ground than it lay back its ears and flew through the wood like an arrow from a bow , closely pursued by the wild beasts , and the Prince was left alone .
11 He looked at his ring , and when he saw that it sparkled as brightly as ever he went straight on through the forest .
12 He had n't gone very far when he saw a most extraordinary looking man coming towards him .
13 He was not more than three feet high , his legs were quite crooked , and all his body was covered with prickles like a hedgehog .
14 Two lions walked with him , fastened to his side by the two ends of his long beard .
15 He stopped the Prince and asked him in a harsh voice : ` Are you the man who has just fed my body-guard ? '
16 Iwanich was so startled that he could hardly reply , but the little man continued : ' I am most grateful to you for your kindness ; what can I give you as a reward ? '
17 ` All I ask , ' replied Iwanich , ` is , that I should be allowed to go through this wood in safety . '
18 ` Most certainly , ' answered the little man ; ` and for greater security I will give you one of my lions as a protector .
19 But when you leave this wood and come near a palace which does not belong to my domain , let the lion go , in order that he may not fall into the hands of an enemy and be killed . '
20 With these words he loosened the lion from his beard and bade the beast guard the youth carefully .
21 With this new protector Iwanich wandered on through the forest , and though he came upon a great many more wolves , hyenas , leopards , and other wild XXXXX , they always kept at a respectful distance when they saw what sort of an escort the Prince had with him .	beasts		bag|beard|beasts|domain|horse|prey|sight|teeth|voice|way

1 I will undertake , sire , to steal away the ring for you . '
2 And the tiny mouse tripped away into the bedroom of the Princess , and waited for nightfall ; then , when the Princess had fallen asleep , it crept up on to her bed , and gnawed a hole in the pillow , through which it dragged one by one little down feathers , and threw them under the Princess 's nose .
3 And the fluff flew into the Princess 's nose , and into her mouth , and starting up she sneezed and coughed , and the ring fell out of her mouth on to the coverlet .
4 In a flash the tiny mouse had seized it , and brought it to Waska as a ransom for the King of the Mice .
5 Thereupon Waska and Schurka started off , and travelled night and day till they reached the stone tower where Martin was imprisoned ; and the cat climbed up the window , and called out to him : ` Martin , dear master , are you still alive ? '
6 ` Ah !
7 Waska , my faithful little cat , is that you ? '
8 replied a weak voice . '
9 I am dying of hunger .
10 For three days I have not tasted food . '
11 ` Be of good heart , dear master , ' replied Waska ; ` from this day forth you will know nothing but happiness and prosperity .
12 If this were a moment to trouble you with riddles , I would make you guess what Schurka and I have brought you back .
13 Only think , we have got you your ring ! '
14 At these words Martin 's joy knew no bounds , and he stroked her fondly , and she rubbed up against him and purred happily , while below Schurka bounded in the air , and barked joyfully .
15 Then Martin took the ring , and threw it from one hand into the other , and instantly the twelve youths appeared and asked what they were to do .
16 ` Fetch me first something to eat and drink , as quickly as possible ; and after that bring musicians hither , and let us have music all day long . '
17 Now when the people in the town and palace heard music coming from the tower they were filled with amazement , and came to the King with the news that witchcraft must be going on in Martin 's Tower , for , instead of dying of starvation , he was seemingly making merry to the sound of music , and to the clatter of plates , and glass , and knives and forks ; and the music was so enchantingly sweet that all the passers-by stood still to listen to it .
18 On this the King sent at once a messenger to the Starvation Tower , and he was so astonished with what he saw that he remained rooted to the spot .
19 Then the King sent his chief counsellors , and they too were transfixed with wonder .
20 At last the King came himself , and he likewise was spellbound by the beauty of the music .
21 Then Martin summoned the twelve XXXXX , spoke to them , saying , ` Build up my castle again , and join it to the King 's Palace with a crystal bridge ; do not forget the trees with the golden and silver apples , and with the birds of Paradise in the branches ; and put back the church with the five cupolas , and let the bells ring out , summoning the people from the four corners of the kingdom .	youths		bed|bedroom|coverlet|music|musicians|nose|pillow|ring|wonder|youths

1 So he took the best horse in the stable and set out .
2 Three years he spent travelling through forests and wildernesses , but could find no one able to tell him anything of the Princess .
3 At last he fell into so great despair that he thought he would put an end to his own life , and for this purpose laid hold of the sword that she had given him by the hands of the fair-haired lad ; but on drawing it from its sheath he noticed that there was some writing on one side of the blade .
4 He looked at this , and read there , ` You will find me in the Blue Mountains . '
5 This made him take heart again , and he gave up the idea of killing himself , thinking that he would go on in hope of meeting some one who could tell him where the Blue Mountains were .
6 After he had gone a long way without thinking where he was going , he saw at last a light far away , and made straight for it .
7 On reaching it he found it came from a little house , and as soon as the man inside heard the noise of the horse 's feet he came out to see who was there .
8 Seeing a stranger on horseback , he asked what brought him there and where he was going . '
9 I have lived here , ' said he , ` for three hundred years , and all that time I have not seen a single human being but yourself . ' '
10 I have been going about for the last three years , ' said the Irishman , ` to see if I could find anyone who can tell me where the Blue Mountains are . '
11 ` Come in , ' said the old man , ` and stay with me all night .
12 I have a book which contains the history of the world , which I shall go through to-night , and if there is such a place as the Blue Mountains in it we shall find it out . '
13 The Irishman stayed there all night , and as soon as morning came rose to go .
14 The old man said he had not gone to sleep all night for going through the book , but there was not a word about the Blue Mountains in it .
15 ` But I 'll tell you what , ' he said , ` if there is such a place on earth at all , I have a brother who lives nine hundred miles from here , and he is sure to know where they are , if anyone in this world does . '
16 The Irishman answered that he could never go these nine hundred miles , for his horse was giving in already .
17 ` That does n't matter , ' said the old man ; ' I can do better than that .
18 I have only to blow my whistle and you will be at my brother 's house before nightfall . '
19 So he blew the whistle , and the Irishman did not know where on earth he was until he found himself at the other old man 's door , who also told him that it was three hundred years since he had seen anyone , and asked him where he was going . '
20 I am going to see if I can find anyone that can tell me where the Blue Mountains are , ' he said .
21 ` If you will stay with me to-night , ' said the old man , ' I have a book of the history of the XXXXX , and I shall know where they are before daylight , if there is such a place in it at all . '	world		anything|being|door|earth|end|history|house|noise|word|world

1 As Thumbelina pleased her , she said : ` As far as I am concerned you may spend the winter with me ; but you must keep my room clean and tidy , and tell me stories , for I like that very much . '
2 And Thumbelina did all that the kind old field-mouse asked , and did it remarkably well too .
3 ` Now I am expecting a visitor , ' said the field-mouse ; ` my neighbour comes to call on me once a week .
4 He is in better circumstances than I am , has great , big rooms , and wears a fine black-velvet coat .
5 If you could only marry him , you would be well provided for .
6 But he is blind .
7 You must tell him all the prettiest stories you know . '
8 But Thumbelina did not trouble her head about him , for he was only a mole .
9 He came and paid them a visit in his black-velvet coat .
10 ` He is so rich and so accomplished , ' the field-mouse told her .
11 ` His house is twenty times larger than mine ; he possesses great knowledge , but he can not bear the sun and the beautiful flowers , and speaks slightingly of them , for he has never seen them . '
12 Thumbelina had to sing to him , so she sang ` Lady-bird , lady-bird , fly away home ! '
13 and other songs so prettily that the mole fell in love with her ; but he did not say anything , he was a very cautious man .
14 A short time before he had dug a long passage through the ground from his own house to that of his neighbour ; in this he gave the field-mouse and Thumbelina permission to walk as often as they liked .
15 But he begged them not to be afraid of the dead bird that lay in the passage : it was a real bird with beak and feathers , and must have died a little time ago , and now laid buried just where he had made his tunnel .
16 The mole took a piece of rotten wood in his mouth , for that glows like fire in the dark , and went in front , lighting them through the long dark passage .
17 When they came to the place where the dead bird lay , the mole put his broad nose against the ceiling and pushed a hole through , so that the daylight could shine down .
18 In the middle of the path lay a dead swallow , his pretty wings pressed close to his sides , his claws and head drawn under his feathers ; the poor bird had evidently died of cold .
19 Thumbelina was very sorry , for she was very fond of all little birds ; they had sung and twittered so beautifully to her all through the summer .
20 But the mole kicked him with his bandy legs and said : ` Now he ca n't sing any more !
21 It must be very miserable to be a little XXXXX !	bird		bird|birds|claws|coat|feathers|home|piece|tunnel|visitor|winter

1 They had a large canvas bag , which tied up at the mouth with strings : into this they slipped the guinea-pig , head first , and then sat upon it . -RRB-
2 ` I 'm glad I 've seen that done , ' thought Alice .
3 ` I 've so often read in the newspapers , at the end of trials , `` There was some attempts at applause , which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court , '' and I never understood what it meant till now . '
4 ` If that 's all you know about it , you may stand down , ' continued the King . '
5 I ca n't go no lower , ' said the Hatter : ` I 'm on the floor , as it is . '
6 ` Then you may SIT down , ' the King replied .
7 Here the other guinea-pig cheered , and was suppressed .
8 ` Come , that finished the guinea-pigs ! '
9 thought Alice .
10 ` Now we shall get on better . '
11 ` I 'd rather finish my tea , ' said the Hatter , with an anxious look at the Queen , who was reading the list of singers .
12 ` You may go , ' said the King , and the Hatter hurriedly left the court , without even waiting to put his shoes on . '
13 -- and just take his head off outside , ' the Queen added to one of the officers : but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door .
14 ` Call the next witness ! '
15 said the King .
16 The next witness was the Duchess 's cook .
17 She carried the pepper-box in her hand , and Alice guessed who it was , even before she got into the court , by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once .
18 ` Give your evidence , ' said the King .
19 ` Sha n't , ' said the cook .
20 The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit , who said in a low voice , ` Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness . '
21 ` Well , if I must , I must , ' the King said , with a melancholy air , and , after folding his arms and frowning at the XXXXX till his eyes were nearly out of sight , he said in a deep voice , ` What are tarts made of ? '	cook		Majesty|SIT|cook|court|hand|newspapers|people|sight|voice|way

1 Eben Craig , who was the Putney singing master and felt himself responsible for the choir , fidgeted uneasily .
2 He tried to catch Frances 's eye , but she was absorbed in reading the mission report she had found in the rack , and Eben was finally forced to tiptoe down to the Spenslow pew and whisper , `` Miss Spenslow , the minister is waiting for the doxology .
3 Are n't you going to take the organ ? ''
4 Frances looked up calmly .
5 Her clear , placid voice was audible not only to those in the nearby pews , but to the minister .
6 `` No , Mr. Craig .
7 You know if a woman is n't fit to speak in the church she ca n't be fit to sing in it either . ''
8 Eben Craig looked exceedingly foolish .
9 He tiptoed gingerly back to his place .
10 The minister , with an unusual flush on his thin , ascetic face , rose suddenly and gave out the opening hymn .
11 Nobody who heard the singing in Putney church that day ever forgot it .
12 Untrained basses and tenors , unrelieved by a single female voice , are not inspiring .
13 There were no announcements of society meetings for the forthcoming week .
14 On the way home from church that day irate husbands and fathers scolded , argued , or pleaded , according to their several dispositions .
15 One and all met with the same calm statement that if a noble , self-sacrificing woman like Mrs. Cotterell were not good enough to speak in the Putney church , ordinary , everyday women could not be fit to take any part whatever in its work .
16 Sunday School that afternoon was a harrowing failure .
17 Out of all the corps of teachers only one was a man , and he alone was at his post .
18 In the Christian Endeavour meeting on Tuesday night the feminine element sat dumb and unresponsive .
19 The Putney women never did things by halves .
20 The men held out for two weeks .
21 At the end of that time they `` happened '' to meet at the manse and talked the matter over with the harassed XXXXX .	minister		Mr.|Nobody|basses|eye|face|flush|men|minister|organ|woman

1 Mrs. Ralston looked too .
2 `` Santa Claus seems to have visited you already , '' she said with a smile .
3 The Josephs laughed .
4 `` Our Santa Claus is somewhat out of pocket this year , '' said Mr. Joseph frankly .
5 `` Those are the little things the small folks here have made for each other .
6 They 've been a month at it , and I 'm always kind of relieved when Christmas is over and there are no more mysterious doings .
7 We 're in such cramped quarters here that you ca n't move without stepping on somebody 's secret . ''
8 A shakedown was spread in the kitchen for the unexpected guests , and presently the Ralstons found themselves alone .
9 Mrs. Ralston went over to the Christmas table and looked at the little gifts half tenderly and half pityingly .
10 `` They 're not much like the contents of our basket , are they ? ''
11 she said , as she touched the calendar Jimmie had made for Mollie out of cardboard and autumn leaves and grasses .
12 `` Just what I was thinking , '' returned her husband , `` and I was thinking of something else , too .
13 I 've a notion that I 'd like to see some of the things in our basket right here on this table . ''
14 `` I 'd like to see them all , '' said Mrs. Ralston promptly .
15 `` Let 's just leave them here , Edward .
16 Roger 's family will have plenty of presents without them , and for that matter we can send them ours when we go back home . ''
17 `` Just as you say , '' agreed Mr. Ralston .
18 `` I like the idea of giving the small folk of this household a rousing good Christmas for once .
19 They 're poor I know , and I dare say pretty well pinched this year like most of the farmers hereabout after the crop failure . ''
20 Mrs. Ralston untied the cover of the big basket .
21 Then the two of them , moving as stealthily as if engaged in a burglary , transferred the XXXXX to the table .	contents		autumn|basket|calendar|cardboard|contents|family|husband|kitchen|notion|secret

1 She directed him to do just as he had done before , with only this difference , that instead of going to the stable which had been the ruin of his hopes , he was to enter right into the castle itself , and to glide as fast as he could down the passages till he came to a room filled with perfume , where he would find a beautiful maiden asleep on a bed .
2 He was to wake the maiden instantly and carry her off , and to be sure not to pay any heed to whatever resistance she might make .
3 The Prince obeyed the Frog 's orders one by one , and all went well for this second time also .
4 The gate opened , the inhabitants fell sound asleep , and he walked down the passage till he found the girl on her bed , exactly as he had been told he would .
5 He woke her , and begged her firmly , but politely , to follow him quickly .
6 After a little persuasion the maiden consented , but only on condition that she was allowed first to put on her dress .
7 This sounded so reasonable and natural that it did not enter the Prince 's head to refuse her request .
8 But the maiden 's hand had hardly touched the dress when the palace suddenly awoke from its sleep , and the Prince was seized and bound .
9 He was so vexed with his own folly , and so taken aback at the disaster , that he did not attempt to explain his conduct , and things would have gone badly with him if his friends the fairies had not softened the hearts of his captors , so that they once more allowed him to leave quietly .
10 However , what troubled him most was the idea of having to meet the Frog who had been his benefactress .
11 How was he ever to appear before her with this tale ?
12 Still , after a long struggle with himself , he made up his mind that there was nothing else to be done , and that he deserved whatever she might say to him .
13 And she said a great deal , for she had worked herself into a terrible passion ; but the Prince humbly implored her pardon , and ventured to point out that it would have been very hard to refuse the young lady 's reasonable request .
14 ` You must learn to do as you are told , ' was all the Frog would reply .
15 But poor Saphir was so unhappy , and begged so hard for forgiveness , that at last the Frog 's anger gave way , and she held up to him a tiny diamond stone .
16 ` Go back , ' she said , ` to the castle , and bury this little diamond close to the door .
17 But be careful not to return to the stable or to the bedroom ; they have proved too fatal to you .
18 Walk straight to the garden and enter through a portico , into a small green wood , in the midst of which is a tree with a trunk of gold and leaves of emeralds .
19 Perched on this tree you will see the beautiful bird you have been seeking so long .
20 You must cut the branch on which it is sitting , and bring it back to me without delay .
21 But I warn you solemnly that if you disobey my directions , as you have done twice before , you have XXXXX more to expect either of me or anyone else . '	nothing		bed|conduct|fairies|folly|forgiveness|hopes|nothing|passage|persuasion|things

1 Never let my cheek grow pale !
2 While the moon is waning nightly , May the maiden bloom more brightly , May her freshness never fail ! '
3 Then she dried her face with her long hair , and was about to go away , when her eye suddenly fell upon the spot where the young man was sitting , and she turned towards the tree .
4 The youth rose and stood waiting .
5 Then the maiden said , ` You ought to have a heavy punishment because you have presumed to watch my secret doings in the moonlight .
6 But I will forgive you this time , because you are a stranger and knew no better .
7 But you must tell me truly who you are and how you came to this place , where no mortal has ever set foot before . '
8 The youth answered humbly : ` Forgive me , beautiful maiden , if I have unintentionally offended you .
9 I chanced to come here after long wandering , and found a good place to sleep under this tree .
10 At your coming I did not know what to do , but stayed where I was , because I thought my silent watching could not offend you . '
11 The maiden answered kindly , ` Come and spend this night with us .
12 You will sleep better on a pillow than on damp moss . '
13 The youth hesitated for a little , but presently he heard the birds saying from the top of the tree , ` Go where she calls you , but take care to give no blood , or you will sell your soul . '
14 So the youth went with her , and soon they reached a beautiful garden , where stood a splendid house , which glittered in the moonlight as if it was all built out of gold and silver .
15 When the youth entered he found many splendid chambers , each one finer than the last .
16 Hundreds of tapers burnt upon golden candlesticks , and shed a light like the brightest day .
17 At length they reached a chamber where a table was spread with the most costly dishes .
18 At the table were placed two chairs , one of silver , the other of gold .
19 The maiden seated herself upon the golden chair , and offered the silver one to her companion .
20 They were served by maidens dressed in white , whose feet made no sound as they moved about , and not a word was spoken during the meal .
21 Afterwards the XXXXX and the Witch-maiden conversed pleasantly together , until a woman , dressed in red , came in to remind them that it was bedtime .	youth		birds|chamber|dishes|finer|house|maiden|punishment|soul|top|youth

1 At the best there would be a storm of protest and objection on her brother 's and sister 's part , and Emily felt that she could not encounter that in her present mood .
2 It would drive her mad .
3 She lit a lamp and dressed herself noiselessly , but with feverish haste .
4 Then she listened .
5 The house was very still .
6 Amelia and John had gone to bed .
7 She wrapped herself in a heavy woollen shawl hanging in the hall and crept downstairs .
8 With numbed fingers she fumbled at the key of the hall door , turned it and slipped out into the night .
9 The storm seemed to reach out and clutch her and swallow her up .
10 She went through the garden , where the flowers already were crushed to earth ; she crossed the long field beyond , where the rain cut her face like a whip and the wind almost twisted her in its grasp like a broken reed .
11 Somehow or other , more by blind instinct than anything else , she found the path that led through commons and woods and waste valleys to her lost home .
12 In after years that frenzied walk through the storm and blackness seemed as an unbroken nightmare to Emily Fair 's recollection .
13 Often she fell .
14 Once as she did so a jagged , dead limb of fir struck her forehead and cut in it a gash that marked her for life .
15 As she struggled to her feet and found her way again the blood trickled down over her face .
16 `` Oh God , do n't let him die before I get to him -- do n't -- do n't -- do n't ! ''
17 she prayed desperately with more of defiance than entreaty in her voice .
18 Then , realizing this , she cried out in horror .
19 Surely some fearsome punishment would come upon her for her wickedness -- she would find her husband lying dead .
20 When Emily opened the kitchen door of the Fair homestead Almira Sentner cried out in her alarm , who or what was this creature with the white face and wild eyes , with her torn and dripping garments and dishevelled , wind-writhen hair and the big drops of blood slowly trickling from her brow ?
21 The next moment she recognized Emily and her XXXXX hardened .	face		face|field|fingers|garden|grasp|hall|house|punishment|whip|wind

1 At last the nurse made up her mind to go to the King , and told him the whole story , and asked him to be present in person next day about the time when the woman usually came .
2 The King promised to do so , and came to the nurse 's room a little before the time , and sat down on a chair with his drawn sword in his hand .
3 Soon after the planks in the floor sprang up as before , and the woman came up , dressed in white , with the iron belt and chain .
4 The King saw at once that it was his own Queen , and immediately hewed asunder the iron chain that was fastened to the belt .
5 This was followed by such noises and crashings down in the earth that all the King 's Palace shook , so that no one expected anything else than to see every bit of it shaken to pieces .
6 At last , however , the noises and shaking stopped , and they began to come to themselves again .
7 The King and Queen embraced each other , and she told him the whole story -- how the Witch came to the ship when they were all asleep and sent her off in the boat .
8 After she had gone so far that she could not see the ship , she sailed on through darkness until she landed beside a three-headed Giant .
9 The Giant wished her to marry him , but she refused ; whereupon he shut her up by herself , and told her she would never get free until she consented .
10 After a time she began to plan how to get her freedom , and at last told him that she would consent if he would allow her to visit her son on earth three days on end .
11 This he agreed to , but put on her this iron belt and chain , the other end of which he fastened round his own waist , and the great noises that were heard when the King cut the chain must have been caused by the Giant 's falling down the underground passage when the chain gave way so suddenly .
12 The Giant 's dwelling , indeed , was right under the Palace , and the terrible shakings must have been caused by him in his death-throes .
13 The King now understood how the Queen he had had for some time past had been so ill-tempered .
14 He at once had a sack drawn over her head and made her be stoned to death , and after that torn in pieces by untamed horses .
15 The two young fellows also told now what they had heard and seen in the Queen 's room , for before this they had been afraid to say anything about it , on account of the Queen 's power .
16 The real Queen was now restored to all her dignity , and was beloved by all .
17 The nurse was married to a nobleman , and the King and Queen gave her splendid presents .
18 THUMBELINA There was once a woman who wanted to have quite a tiny , little child , but she did not know where to get one from .
19 So one day she went to an old Witch and said to her : ' I should so much like to have a tiny , little child ; can you tell me where I can get one ? '
20 ` Oh , we have just got one ready ! '
21 said the XXXXX .	Witch		Palace|Witch|chair|earth|head|noises|pieces|presents|sack|story

1 ` First and foremost , ' said Olof , ` you must get a wide cloak to wear over your other clothes , when you are put into the mound .
2 The Giant 's ghost will walk after you are both left together in there , and he will have two dogs along with him .
3 He will ask you to cut pieces out of his legs to give to the dogs , but that you must not promise to do unless he tells you where Hermod has gone to , and tells you how to find him .
4 He will then let you stand on his shoulders , so as to get out of the mound ; but he means to cheat you all the same , and will catch you by the cloak to pull you back again ; but you must take care to have the cloak loose on your shoulders , so that he will only get hold of that . '
5 The mound was all ready now , and the Giant laid in it , and into it Hadvor also had to go without being allowed to make any defence .
6 After they were both left there everything happened just as Olof had said .
7 The prince became a Giant again , and asked Hadvor to cut the pieces out of his legs for the dogs ; but she refused until he told her that Hermod was in a desert island , which she could not reach unless she took the skin off the soles of his feet and made shoes out of that ; with these shoes she could travel both on land and sea .
8 This Hadvor now did , and the Giant then let her get up on his shoulders to get out of the mound .
9 As she sprang out he caught hold of her cloak ; but she had taken care to let it lie loose on her shoulders , and so escaped .
10 She now made her way down to the sea , to where she knew there was the shortest distance over to the island in which Hermod was .
11 This strait she easily crossed , for the shoes kept her up .
12 On reaching the island she found a sandy beach all along by the sea , and high cliffs above .
13 Nor could she see any way to get up these , and so , being both sad at heart and tired with the long journey , she lay down and fell asleep .
14 As she slept she dreamed that a tall woman came to her and said , ' I know that you are Princess Hadvor , and are searching for Hermod .
15 He is on this island ; but it will be hard for you to get to him if you have no one to help you , for you can not climb the cliffs by your own strength .
16 I have therefore let down a rope , by which you will be able to climb up ; and as the island is so large that you might not find Hermod 's dwelling-place so easily , I lay down this clew beside you .
17 You need only hold the end of the thread , and the clew will run on before and show you the way .
18 I also lay this belt beside you , to put on when you awaken ; it will keep you from growing faint with hunger . '
19 The woman now disappeared , and Hadvor woke , and saw that all her dream had been true .
20 The rope hung down from the cliff , and the clew and belt lay beside her .
21 The belt she put on , the rope enabled her to climb up the XXXXX , and the clew led her on till she came to the mouth of a cave , which was not very big .	cliff		Giant|beach|cliff|dogs|hold|journey|legs|sea|shoes|strength

1 But 't was worth the money to see the old fellow 's face .
2 He 'd thank the Lord and me , he said .
3 How Jake and Wade 'd roar to hear them two names in partnership !
4 But I 'm going to pull up a bit after this , see if I do n't , just to justify the old man 's faith in me .
5 ` Twould be too bad to disappoint him if he 's believed for so long that I was going to turn out all right yet . ''
6 When the 4:30 train went out Ben Butler stood on the rear platform .
7 Gabe Foley watched him abstractedly as he receded .
8 `` Blamed if I know who that fellow was , '' he remarked to a crony .
9 `` He never told his name , but seems to me I 've seen him before .
10 He has a kind of hang-dog look , I think .
11 But he paid up square and it is none of my business . ''
12 An Unconventional Confidence The Girl in Black-and-Yellow ran frantically down the grey road under the pines .
13 There was nobody to see her , but she would have run if all Halifax had been looking on .
14 For had she not on the loveliest new hat -- a `` creation '' in yellow chiffon with big black choux -- and a dress to match ?
15 And was there not a shower coming straight from the hills across the harbour ?
16 Down at the end of the long resinous avenue the Girl saw the shore road , with the pavilion shutting out the view of the harbour 's mouth .
17 Below the pavilion , clean-shaven George 's Island guarded the town like a sturdy bulldog , and beyond it were the wooded hills , already lost in a mist of rain .
18 `` Oh , I shall be too late , '' moaned the Girl .
19 But she held her hat steady with one hand and ran on .
20 If she could only reach the pavilion in time !
21 It was a neck-and-neck race between the rain and the XXXXX , but the Girl won .	Girl		Confidence|Girl|avenue|creation|dress|hat|hills|name|pavilion|shower

1 `` Keep him ! ''
2 she gasped .
3 `` He came naked , by night , alone and very hungry ; yet he was not afraid !
4 Look , he has pushed one of my babes to one side already .
5 And that lame butcher would have killed him and would have run off to the Waingunga while the villagers here hunted through all our lairs in revenge !
6 Keep him ?
7 Assuredly I will keep him .
8 Lie still , little frog .
9 O thou Mowgli -- for Mowgli the Frog I will call thee -- the time will come when thou wilt hunt Shere Khan as he has hunted thee . ''
10 `` But what will our Pack say ? ''
11 said Father Wolf .
12 The Law of the Jungle lays down very clearly that any wolf may , when he marries , withdraw from the Pack he belongs to .
13 But as soon as his cubs are old enough to stand on their feet he must bring them to the Pack Council , which is generally held once a month at full moon , in order that the other wolves may identify them .
14 After that inspection the cubs are free to run where they please , and until they have killed their first buck no excuse is accepted if a grown wolf of the Pack kills one of them .
15 The punishment is death where the murderer can be found ; and if you think for a minute you will see that this must be so .
16 Father Wolf waited till his cubs could run a little , and then on the night of the Pack Meeting took them and Mowgli and Mother Wolf to the Council Rock -- a hilltop covered with stones and boulders where a hundred wolves could hide .
17 Akela , the great gray Lone Wolf , who led all the Pack by strength and cunning , lay out at full length on his rock , and below him sat forty or more wolves of every size and color , from badger-colored veterans who could handle a buck alone to young black three-year-olds who thought they could .
18 The Lone Wolf had led them for a year now .
19 He had fallen twice into a wolf trap in his youth , and once he had been beaten and left for dead ; so he knew the manners and customs of men .
20 There was very little talking at the Rock .
21 The cubs tumbled over each other in the center of the circle where their mothers and fathers sat , and now and again a senior wolf would go quietly up to a cub , look at him carefully , and return to his place on noiseless XXXXX .	feet		Council|O|buck|color|feet|order|rock|side|veterans|villagers

1 We will call you May Blossom . '
2 ` Farewell , farewell ! '
3 said the little swallow with a heavy heart , and flew away to farther lands , far , far away , right back to Denmark .
4 There he had a little nest above a window , where his wife lived , who can tell fairy-stories .
5 ` Tweet , tweet ! '
6 he sang to her .
7 And that is the way we learnt the whole story .
8 THE NIGHTINGALE In China , as I daresay you know , the Emperor is a Chinaman , and all his courtiers are also Chinamen .
9 The story I am going to tell you happened many years ago , but it is worth while for you to listen to it , before it is forgotten .
10 The Emperor 's Palace was the most splendid in the world , all made of priceless porcelain , but so brittle and delicate that you had to take great care how you touched it .
11 In the garden were the most beautiful flowers , and on the loveliest of them were tied silver bells which tinkled , so that if you passed you could not help looking at the flowers .
12 Everything in the Emperor 's garden was admirably arranged with a view to effect ; and the garden was so large that even the gardener himself did not know where it ended .
13 If you ever got beyond it , you came to a stately forest with great trees and deep lakes in it .
14 The forest sloped down to the sea , which was a clear blue .
15 Large ships could sail under the boughs of the trees , and in these trees there lived a Nightingale .
16 She sang so beautifully that even the poor fisherman who had so much to do stood and listened when he came at night to cast his nets .
17 ` How beautiful it is ! '
18 he said ; but he had to attend to his work , and forgot about the bird .
19 But when she sang the next night and the fisherman came there again , he said the same thing , ` How beautiful it is ! '
20 From all the countries round came travellers to the Emperor 's town , who were astonished at the Palace and the garden .
21 But when they heard the Nightingale they all said , ` This is the finest XXXXX after all ! '	thing		bird|blue|courtiers|heart|lands|porcelain|ships|thing|way|world

1 `` Oh , '' said Danny , `` he 's been to dine with Buster Bear , and now he has no use for his old friends . ''
2 Pretty soon along came Johnny Chuck , and he was very much put out because he had been treated by Old Mr. Toad just as Peter Rabbit had .
3 Striped Chipmunk told the same story .
4 So did Unc ' Billy Possum .
5 It was the same with all of Old Mr. Toad 's old friends and neighbors , excepting Bobby Coon , who , you know , is Buster Bear 's little cousin .
6 To him Old Mr. Toad was very polite and talked a great deal about Buster Bear , and thought that Bobby must be very proud to be related to Buster .
7 At first everybody thought it a great joke to see Old Mr. Toad so puffed up with , pride , but after a little they grew tired of being snubbed by their old friend and neighbor , and began to say unpleasant things about him .
8 Then they decided that what Old Mr. Toad needed was a lesson , so they put their heads together and planned how they would teach Old Mr. Toad how foolish it is for any one to be puffed up with pride .
9 XXI OLD MR. TOAD RECEIVES ANOTHER INVITATION The friends and neighbors of Old Mr. Toad decided that he needed to be taught a lesson .
10 At first , you know , every one had laughed at him , because he had grown too proud to speak to them , but after a little they grew tired of being treated so , and some of them put their heads together to think of some plan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson and what a very , very foolish thing false pride is .
11 The very next day Jimmy Skunk went into the Green Forest to look for Buster Bear .
12 You know Jimmy is n't afraid of Buster .
13 He did n't have to look long , and when he had found him , the very first thing he did was to ask Buster if he had seen any fat beetles that morning .
14 You know Jimmy is very fond of fat beetles , and the first thing he asks any one he may happen to meet is if they have seen any .
15 Buster Bear grinned and said he thought he knew where there might be a few , and he would be pleased to have Jimmy go with him to see .
16 Sure enough , under an old log he found five fat beetles , and these Jimmy gobbled up without even asking Buster if he would have one .
17 Jimmy is usually very polite , but this time he quite forgot politeness .
18 I am afraid he is rather apt to when fat beetles are concerned .
19 But Buster did n't seem to mind .
20 When the last beetle had disappeared Jimmy smacked his lips , and then he told Buster Bear what he had come for .
21 Of course , at first Buster had thought it was for the fat XXXXX .	beetles		Mr.|Striped|beetles|day|deal|log|politeness|pride|story|time

1 There the mouse lived warm and snug , with a store-room full of corn , a splendid kitchen and dining-room .
2 Poor little Thumbelina went up to the door and begged for a little piece of barley , for she had not had anything to eat for the last two days .
3 ` Poor little creature ! '
4 said the field-mouse , for she was a kind-hearted old thing at the bottom .
5 ` Come into my warm room and have some dinner with me . '
6 As Thumbelina pleased her , she said : ` As far as I am concerned you may spend the winter with me ; but you must keep my room clean and tidy , and tell me stories , for I like that very much . '
7 And Thumbelina did all that the kind old field-mouse asked , and did it remarkably well too .
8 ` Now I am expecting a visitor , ' said the field-mouse ; ` my neighbour comes to call on me once a week .
9 He is in better circumstances than I am , has great , big rooms , and wears a fine black-velvet coat .
10 If you could only marry him , you would be well provided for .
11 But he is blind .
12 You must tell him all the prettiest stories you know . '
13 But Thumbelina did not trouble her head about him , for he was only a mole .
14 He came and paid them a visit in his black-velvet coat .
15 ` He is so rich and so accomplished , ' the field-mouse told her .
16 ` His house is twenty times larger than mine ; he possesses great knowledge , but he can not bear the sun and the beautiful flowers , and speaks slightingly of them , for he has never seen them . '
17 Thumbelina had to sing to him , so she sang ` Lady-bird , lady-bird , fly away home ! '
18 and other songs so prettily that the mole fell in love with her ; but he did not say anything , he was a very cautious man .
19 A short time before he had dug a long passage through the ground from his own house to that of his neighbour ; in this he gave the field-mouse and Thumbelina permission to walk as often as they liked .
20 But he begged them not to be afraid of the dead bird that lay in the passage : it was a real bird with beak and feathers , and must have died a little time ago , and now laid buried just where he had made his tunnel .
21 The XXXXX took a piece of rotten wood in his mouth , for that glows like fire in the dark , and went in front , lighting them through the long dark passage .	mole		flowers|ground|home|mine|mole|passage|room|trouble|tunnel|winter

1 I am the Prince , ' he said , ` who you in your goodness , when I was wandering about in the shape of a black crow , freed from the most awful torments .
2 Come now to my castle with me , and let us live there happily together . '
3 So they went to the castle where they had both endured so much .
4 But when they reached it , it was difficult to believe that it was the same , for it had all been rebuilt and done up again .
5 And there they lived for a hundred years , a hundred years of joy and happiness .
6 HOW SIX MEN TRAVELLED THROUGH THE WIDE WORLD There was once upon a time a man who understood all sorts of arts ; he served in the war , and bore himself bravely and well ; but when the war was over , he got his discharge , and set out on his travels with three farthings of his pay in his pocket .
7 ` Wait , ' he said ; ` that does not please me ; only let me find the right people , and the King shall yet give me all the treasures of his kingdom . '
8 He strode angrily into the forest , and there he saw a man standing who had uprooted six trees as if they were straws .
9 He said to him , ` Will you be my servant and travel with me ? '
10 ` Yes , ' he answered ; ` but first of all I will take this little bundle of sticks home to my mother , ' and he took one of the trees and wound it round the other five , raised the bundle on his shoulders and bore it off .
11 Then he came back and went with his master , who said , ` We two ought to be able to travel through the wide world ! '
12 And when they had gone a little way they came upon a hunter , who was on his knees , his gun on his shoulder , aiming at something .
13 The master said to him , ` Hunter , what are you aiming at ? '
14 He answered , ` Two miles from this place sits a fly on a branch of an oak ; I want to shoot out its left eye . '
15 ` Oh , go with me , ' said the man ; ` if we three are together we shall easily travel through the wide world . '
16 The hunter agreed and went with him , and they came to seven windmills whose sails were going round quite fast , and yet there was not a breath of wind , nor was a leaf moving .
17 The man said , ' I do n't know what is turning those windmills ; there is not the slightest breeze blowing . '
18 So he walked on with his servants , and when they had gone two miles they saw a man sitting on a tree , holding one of his nostrils and blowing out of the other .
19 ` Fellow , what are you puffing at up there ? '
20 asked the man .
21 He replied , ` Two miles from this XXXXX are standing seven windmills ; see , I am blowing to drive them round . '	place		castle|eye|joy|master|place|sails|shape|something|way|world

1 -LRB- Here Rikki-tikki interrupted , and the rest of the song is lost . -RRB-
2 Toomai of the Elephants I will remember what I was , I am sick of rope and chain -- I will remember my old strength and all my forest affairs .
3 I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar-cane : I will go out to my own kind , and the wood-folk in their lairs .
4 I will go out until the day , until the morning break -- Out to the wind 's untainted kiss , the water 's clean caress ; I will forget my ankle-ring and snap my picket stake .
5 I will revisit my lost loves , and playmates masterless !
6 Kala Nag , which means Black Snake , had served the Indian Government in every way that an elephant could serve it for forty-seven years , and as he was fully twenty years old when he was caught , that makes him nearly seventy -- a ripe age for an elephant .
7 He remembered pushing , with a big leather pad on his forehead , at a gun stuck in deep mud , and that was before the Afghan War of 1842 , and he had not then come to his full strength .
8 His mother Radha Pyari , -- Radha the darling , -- who had been caught in the same drive with Kala Nag , told him , before his little milk tusks had dropped out , that elephants who were afraid always got hurt .
9 Kala Nag knew that that advice was good , for the first time that he saw a shell burst he backed , screaming , into a stand of piled rifles , and the bayonets pricked him in all his softest places .
10 So , before he was twenty-five , he gave up being afraid , and so he was the best-loved and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of India .
11 He had carried tents , twelve hundred pounds ' weight of tents , on the march in Upper India .
12 He had been hoisted into a ship at the end of a steam crane and taken for days across the water , and made to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India , and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in Magdala , and had come back again in the steamer entitled , so the soldiers said , to the Abyssinian War medal .
13 He had seen his fellow elephants die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid , ten years later ; and afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles south to haul and pile big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein .
14 There he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was shirking his fair share of work .
15 After that he was taken off timber-hauling , and employed , with a few score other elephants who were trained to the business , in helping to catch wild elephants among the Garo hills .
16 Elephants are very strictly preserved by the Indian Government .
17 There is one whole department which does nothing else but hunt them , and catch them , and break them in , and send them up and down the country as they are needed for work .
18 Kala Nag stood ten fair feet at the shoulders , and his tusks had been cut off short at five feet , and bound round the ends , to prevent them splitting , with bands of copper ; but he could do more with those stumps than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpened ones .
19 When , after weeks and weeks of cautious driving of scattered elephants across the hills , the forty or fifty wild monsters were driven into the last stockade , and the big drop gate , made of tree trunks lashed together , jarred down behind them , Kala Nag , at the word of command , would go into that flaring , trumpeting pandemonium -LRB- generally at night , when the flicker of the torches made it difficult to judge distances -RRB- , and , picking out the biggest and wildest tusker of the mob , would hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the backs of the other elephants roped and tied the smaller ones .
20 There was nothing in the way of fighting that Kala Nag , the old wise Black Snake , did not know , for he had stood up more than once in his time to the charge of the wounded tiger , and , curling up his soft trunk to be out of harm 's way , had knocked the springing brute sideways in mid-air with a quick sickle cut of his head , that he had invented all by himself ; had knocked him over , and kneeled upon him with his huge knees till the life went out with a gasp and a howl , and there was only a fluffy striped thing on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail .
21 `` Yes , '' said Big Toomai , his driver , the son of Black Toomai who had taken him to Abyssinia , and grandson of Toomai of the Elephants who had seen him caught , `` there is XXXXX that the Black Snake fears except me .	nothing		Elephants|advice|business|cut|hunt|nothing|rope|strength|tiger|water

1 said the King ; but the largest dog seized him too , and the Queen as well , and threw them up after the others .
2 This frightened the soldiers , and all the people cried : ` Good Soldier , you shall be our King , and marry the beautiful Princess ! '
3 Then they put the Soldier into the King 's coach , and the three dogs danced in front , crying ` Hurrah ! '
4 And the boys whistled and the soldiers presented arms .
5 The Princess came out of the copper castle , and became Queen ; and that pleased her very much .
6 The wedding festivities lasted for eight days , and the dogs sat at table and made eyes at everyone .
7 THE WITCH IN THE STONE BOAT -LRB- 31 -RRB- -LRB- 31 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
8 There were once a King and a Queen , and they had a son called Sigurd , who was very strong and active , and good-looking .
9 When the King came to be bowed down with the weight of years he spoke to his son , and said that now it was time for him to look out for a fitting match for himself , for he did not know how long he might last now , and he would like to see him married before he died .
10 Sigurd was not averse to this , and asked his father where he thought it best to look for a wife .
11 The King answered that in a certain country there was a King who had a beautiful daughter , and he thought it would be most desirable if Sigurd could get her .
12 So the two parted , and Sigurd prepared for the journey , and went to where his father had directed him .
13 He came to the King and asked his daughter 's hand , which he readily granted him , but only on the condition that he should remain there as long as he could , for the King himself was not strong and not very able to govern his kingdom .
14 Sigurd accepted this condition , but added that he would have to get leave to go home again to his own country when he heard news of his father 's death .
15 After that Sigurd married the Princess , and helped his father-in-law to govern the kingdom .
16 He and the Princess loved each other dearly , and after a year a son came to them , who was two years old when word came to Sigurd that his father was dead .
17 Sigurd now prepared to return home with his wife and child , and went on board ship to go by sea .
18 They had sailed for several days , when the breeze suddenly fell , and there came a dead calm , at a time when they needed only one day 's voyage to reach home .
19 Sigurd and his Queen were one day on deck , when most of the others on the ship had fallen asleep .
20 There they sat and talked for a while , and had their little son along with them .
21 After a XXXXX Sigurd became so heavy with sleep that he could no longer keep awake , so he went below and lay down , leaving the Queen alone on the deck , playing with her son .	time		calm|coach|country|daughter|home|match|others|people|ship|time

1 he exclaimed right out loud .
2 `` Do what ? ''
3 demanded Jerry Muskrat , who happened along just then .
4 `` Why , grow a new tail like that pollywog , '' replied Peter , and told Jerry all that he had seen .
5 Jerry laughed .
6 `` You 'll see queerer things than that if you watch those pollywogs long enough , '' said he .
7 `` They are a queer lot of babies , and very interesting to watch if you 've got the time for it .
8 I have n't .
9 This Smiling Pool is a great kindergarten , and there 's something happening here every minute .
10 There 's no place like it . ''
11 `` Are those great big fat pollywogs Grandfather Frog 's children , or Old Mr. Toad 's ? ''
12 asked Peter .
13 `` Grandfather Frog 's last year 's children , '' replied Jerry .
14 `` They 'll grow into real Frogs this summer , if nothing happens to them . ''
15 `` Where are Old Mr. Toad 's last year 's children ? ''
16 asked Peter .
17 `` Do n't ask me , '' replied Jerry .
18 `` They hopped away last summer .
19 Never saw anything like the way those Toad youngsters grow .
20 Those Toad pollywogs you see now will turn into real Toads , and be leaving the Smiling Pool in a few weeks .
21 People think Old Mr. Toad is slow , but there is XXXXX slow about his children .	nothing		Pool|anything|children|nothing|place|something|summer|tail|things|year

1 One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field .
2 The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
3 Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid .
4 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
5 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves .
6 When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew very anxious , and when his game bag was found close to the mill-pond she guessed at once what had befallen him .
7 She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing .
8 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
9 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
10 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
11 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
12 The hunter 's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .
13 Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon , but it passed at last , and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond , combed her black hair with a golden comb , and when she had finished , placed the comb on the bank ; then she watched the water impatiently .
14 Soon she heard a rushing sound , and a big wave rose suddenly and swept the comb off the bank , and a minute after the head of her husband rose from the pond and gazed sadly at her .
15 But immediately another wave came , and the head sank back into the water without having said a word .
16 The pond lay still and motionless , glittering in the moonshine , and the hunter 's wife was not a bit better off than she had been before .
17 In despair she wandered about for days and nights , and at last , worn out by fatigue , she sank once more into a deep sleep , and dreamt exactly the same dream about the old witch .
18 So next morning she went again to the flowery meadow and sought the witch in her hut , and told her of her grief .
19 The old woman counselled her to go to the mill-pond the next full moon and play upon a golden flute , and then to lay the flute on the bank .
20 As soon as the next moon was full the hunter 's wife went to the mill-pond , played on a golden flute , and when she had finished placed it on the bank .
21 Then a rushing sound was heard , and a wave swept the flute off the bank , and soon the XXXXX of the hunter appeared and rose up higher and higher till he was half out of the water .	head		Time|arms|blood|childhood|flute|grief|head|home|hunting|water

1 Oh , how dark and dull it was there !
2 And they told him : ` To-morrow you are to be hanged . '
3 Hearing that did not exactly cheer him , and he had left his tinder-box in the inn .
4 Next morning he could see through the iron grating in front of his little window how the people were hurrying out of the town to see him hanged .
5 He heard the drums and saw the soldiers marching ; all the people were running to and fro .
6 Just below his window was a shoemaker 's apprentice , with leather apron and shoes ; he was skipping along so merrily that one of his shoes flew off and fell against the wall , just where the Soldier was sitting peeping through the iron grating .
7 ` Oh , shoemaker 's boy , you need n't be in such a hurry ! '
8 said the Soldier to him .
9 ` There 's nothing going on till I arrive .
10 But if you will run back to the house where I lived , and fetch me my tinder-box , I will give you four shillings .
11 But you must put your best foot foremost . '
12 The shoemaker 's boy was very willing to earn four shillings , and fetched the tinder-box , gave it to the Soldier , and -- yes -- now you shall hear .
13 Outside the town a great scaffold had been erected , and all round were standing the soldiers , and hundreds of thousands of people .
14 The King and Queen were sitting on a magnificent throne opposite the judges and the whole council .
15 The Soldier was already standing on the top of the ladder ; but when they wanted to put the rope round his neck , he said that the fulfilment of one innocent request was always granted to a poor criminal before he underwent his punishment .
16 He would so much like to smoke a small pipe of tobacco ; it would be his last pipe in this world .
17 The King could not refuse him this , and so he took out his tinder-box , and rubbed it once , twice , three times .
18 And lo , and behold I there stood all three dogs -- the one with eyes as large as saucers , the second with eyes as large as mill-wheels , and the third with eyes each as large as the Round Tower of Copenhagen .
19 ` Help me now , so that I may not be hanged ! '
20 cried the Soldier .
21 And thereupon the dogs fell upon the judges and the whole XXXXX , seized some by the legs , others by the nose , and threw them so high into the air that they fell and were smashed into pieces . '	council		council|dogs|house|hurry|morning|round|throne|times|town|world

1 But remember when next I come to the Council Rock , as a man should come , it will be with Shere Khan 's hide on my head .
2 For the rest , Akela goes free to live as he pleases .
3 Ye will not kill him , because that is not my will .
4 Nor do I think that ye will sit here any longer , lolling out your tongues as though ye were somebodies , instead of dogs whom I drive out -- thus !
5 Go ! ''
6 The fire was burning furiously at the end of the branch , and Mowgli struck right and left round the circle , and the wolves ran howling with the sparks burning their fur .
7 At last there were only Akela , Bagheera , and perhaps ten wolves that had taken Mowgli 's part .
8 Then something began to hurt Mowgli inside him , as he had never been hurt in his life before , and he caught his breath and sobbed , and the tears ran down his face .
9 `` What is it ?
10 What is it ? ''
11 he said .
12 `` I do not wish to leave the jungle , and I do not know what this is .
13 Am I dying , Bagheera ? ''
14 `` No , Little Brother .
15 That is only tears such as men use , '' said Bagheera .
16 `` Now I know thou art a man , and a man 's cub no longer .
17 The jungle is shut indeed to thee henceforward .
18 Let them fall , Mowgli .
19 They are only tears . ''
20 So Mowgli sat and cried as though his heart would break ; and he had never cried in all his life before .
21 `` Now , '' he said , `` I will go to XXXXX .	men		branch|breath|dogs|end|face|head|heart|jungle|men|wolves

1 And one of the ladies-in-waiting had to go down ; but she put on wooden clogs .
2 ` What will you take for the pot ? '
3 asked the lady-in-waiting . '
4 I will have ten kisses from the Princess , ' answered the Swineherd .
5 ` Heaven forbid ! '
6 said the lady-in-waiting .
7 ` Yes , I will sell it for nothing less , ' replied the Swineherd .
8 ` Well , what does he say ? '
9 asked the Princess . '
10 I really hardly like to tell you , ' answered the lady-in-waiting .
11 ` Oh , then you can whisper it to me . '
12 ` He is disobliging ! '
13 said the Princess , and went away .
14 But she had only gone a few steps when the bells rang out so prettily -- ` Where is Augustus dear ?
15 Alas !
16 he 's not here , here , here . '
17 ` Listen ! '
18 said the Princess .
19 ` Ask him whether he will take ten kisses from my ladies-in-waiting . '
20 ` No , thank you , ' said the Swineherd .
21 ` Ten kisses from the Princess , or else I keep my XXXXX . '	pot		answered|bells|gone|kisses|nothing|pot|said|sell|steps|tell

1 That was what Uncle Edgar called things that did n't interest him , so that Frank felt pretty sure of his word .
2 Nevertheless , he wondered uncomfortably what made Cousin Myra smile so queerly .
3 `` Why , how dreadful ! ''
4 she said brightly .
5 `` I thought all boys and girls looked upon Christmas as the very best time in the year . ''
6 `` We do n't , '' said Frank gloomily .
7 `` It 's just the same old thing year in and year out .
8 We know just exactly what is going to happen .
9 We even know pretty well what presents we are going to get .
10 And Christmas Day itself is always the same .
11 We 'll get up in the morning , and our stockings will be full of things , and half of them we do n't want .
12 Then there 's dinner .
13 It 's always so poky .
14 And all the uncles and aunts come to dinner -- just the same old crowd , every year , and they say just the same things .
15 Aunt Desda always says , ` Why , Frankie , how you have grown ! '
16 She knows I hate to be called Frankie .
17 And after dinner they 'll sit round and talk the rest of the day , and that 's all .
18 Yes , I call Christmas a nuisance . ''
19 `` There is n't a single bit of fun in it , '' said Ida discontentedly .
20 `` Not a bit ! ''
21 said the twins , both together , as they always said XXXXX .	things		Christmas|bit|boys|day|half|interest|rest|round|thing|things

1 She 'll get me executed , as sure as ferrets are ferrets !
2 Where CAN I have dropped them , I wonder ? '
3 Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves , and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them , but they were nowhere to be seen -- everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool , and the great hall , with the glass table and the little door , had vanished completely .
4 Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice , as she went hunting about , and called out to her in an angry tone , ` Why , Mary Ann , what ARE you doing out here ?
5 Run home this moment , and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan !
6 Quick , now ! '
7 And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to , without trying to explain the mistake it had made .
8 ` He took me for his housemaid , ' she said to herself as she ran .
9 ` How surprised he 'll be when he finds out who I am !
10 But I 'd better take him his fan and gloves -- that is , if I can find them . '
11 As she said this , she came upon a neat little house , on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name ` W. RABBIT ' engraved upon it .
12 She went in without knocking , and hurried upstairs , in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann , and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and gloves .
13 ` How queer it seems , ' Alice said to herself , ` to be going messages for a rabbit !
14 I suppose Dinah 'll be sending me on messages next ! '
15 And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen : ' `` Miss Alice !
16 Come here directly , and get ready for your walk ! ''
17 `` Coming in a minute , nurse !
18 But I 've got to see that the mouse does n't get out . ''
19 Only I do n't think , ' Alice went on , ` that they 'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people about like that ! '
20 By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window , and on it -LRB- as she had hoped -RRB- a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves : she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves , and was just going to leave the room , when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-glass .
21 There was no label this XXXXX with the words ` DRINK ME , ' but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips . '	time		door|fan|gloves|people|room|table|time|tone|walk|window

1 So he did what they said , and carried the sieve full of water into the hut without spilling a drop .
2 When they entered the hut the cat was curled up on the floor .
3 So they stroked her , and fed her with ham , and said to her : ` Pussy , grey pussy , tell us how we are to get away from the witch ? '
4 Then the cat thanked them for the ham , and gave them a pocket-handkerchief and a comb , and told them that when the witch pursued them , as she certainly would , all they had to do was to throw the handkerchief on the ground and run as fast as they could .
5 As soon as the handkerchief touched the ground a deep , broad river would spring up , which would hinder the witch 's progress .
6 If she managed to get across it , they must throw the comb behind them and run for their lives , for where the comb fell a dense forest would start up , which would delay the witch so long that they would be able to get safely away .
7 The cat had scarcely finished speaking when the witch returned to see if the children had fulfilled their tasks .
8 ` Well , you have done well enough for to-day , ' she grumbled ; ` but to-morrow you 'll have something more difficult to do , and if you do n't do it well , you pampered brats , straight into the oven you go . '
9 Half-dead with fright , and trembling in every limb , the poor children lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dared not close their eyes , and scarcely ventured to breathe .
10 In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips .
11 Then the witch left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood .
12 As soon as she had gone out of sight the children took the comb and the handkerchief , and , taking one another by the hand , they started and ran , and ran , and ran .
13 And first they met the watch-dog , who was going to leap on them and tear them to pieces ; but they threw the remains of their bread to him , and he ate them and wagged his tail .
14 Then they were hindered by the birch-trees , whose branches almost put their eyes out .
15 But the little sister tied the twigs together with a piece of ribbon , and they got past safely , and , after running through the wood , came out on to the open fields .
16 In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen and tangling the threads as it wove .
17 And the witch returned to see how the children were getting on ; and she crept up to the window , and whispered : ` Are you weaving , my little dear ? '
18 ` Yes , granny , I am weaving , ' answered the cat .
19 When the witch saw that the children had escaped her , she was furious , and , hitting the cat with a porringer , she said : ` Why did you let the children leave the hut ?
20 Why did you not scratch their eyes out ? '
21 But the cat curled up its XXXXX and put its back up , and answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never even threw me a bone , but the dear children gave me their own piece of ham . '	tail		children|fright|granny|lives|river|tail|tasks|twigs|witch|wood

1 Here is the coat !
2 Here the cloak ! '
3 and so on .
4 ` Spun clothes are so comfortable that one would imagine one had nothing on at all ; but that is the beauty of it ! '
5 ` Yes , ' said all the knights , but they could see nothing , for there was nothing there .
6 ` Will it please your Majesty graciously to take off your clothes , ' said the impostors , ` then we will put on the new clothes , here before the mirror . '
7 The Emperor took off all his clothes , and the impostors placed themselves before him as if they were putting on each part of his new clothes which was ready , and the Emperor turned and bent himself in front of the mirror .
8 ` How beautifully they fit !
9 How well they sit ! '
10 said everybody .
11 ` What material !
12 What colours !
13 It is a gorgeous suit ! '
14 ` They are waiting outside with the canopy which your Majesty is wont to have borne over you in the procession , ' announced the Master of the Ceremonies .
15 ` Look , I am ready , ' said the Emperor .
16 ` Does n't it sit well ! '
17 And he turned himself again to the mirror to see if his finery was on all right .
18 The chamberlains who were used to carry the train put their hands near the floor as if they were lifting up the train ; then they did as if they were holding something in the air .
19 They would not have it noticed that they could see nothing .
20 So the Emperor went along in the procession under the splendid canopy , and all the people in the streets and at the windows said , ` How matchless are the Emperor 's new clothes !
21 That XXXXX fastened to his dress , how beautifully it hangs ! '	train		Ceremonies|Master|clothes|hands|knights|material|mirror|nothing|streets|train

1 ` Two days wrong ! '
2 sighed the Hatter . '
3 I told you butter would n't suit the works ! '
4 he added looking angrily at the March Hare .
5 ` It was the BEST butter , ' the March Hare meekly replied .
6 ` Yes , but some crumbs must have got in as well , ' the Hatter grumbled : ` you should n't have put it in with the bread-knife . '
7 The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily : then he dipped it into his cup of tea , and looked at it again : but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark , ` It was the BEST butter , you know . '
8 Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity .
9 ` What a funny watch ! '
10 she remarked .
11 ` It tells the day of the month , and does n't tell what o'clock it is ! '
12 ` Why should it ? '
13 muttered the Hatter .
14 ` Does YOUR watch tell you what year it is ? '
15 ` Of course not , ' Alice replied very readily : ` but that 's because it stays the same year for such a long time together . '
16 ` Which is just the case with MINE , ' said the Hatter .
17 Alice felt dreadfully puzzled .
18 The Hatter 's remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it , and yet it was certainly English . '
19 I do n't quite understand you , ' she said , as politely as she could .
20 ` The Dormouse is asleep again , ' said the Hatter , and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose .
21 The Dormouse shook its head impatiently , and said , without opening its eyes , ` Of course , of XXXXX ; just what I was going to remark myself . '	course		March|butter|course|curiosity|day|month|time|watch|works|year

1 said the King ; but the largest dog seized him too , and the Queen as well , and threw them up after the others .
2 This frightened the soldiers , and all the people cried : ` Good Soldier , you shall be our King , and marry the beautiful Princess ! '
3 Then they put the Soldier into the King 's coach , and the three dogs danced in front , crying ` Hurrah ! '
4 And the boys whistled and the soldiers presented arms .
5 The Princess came out of the copper castle , and became Queen ; and that pleased her very much .
6 The wedding festivities lasted for eight days , and the dogs sat at table and made eyes at everyone .
7 THE WITCH IN THE STONE BOAT -LRB- 31 -RRB- -LRB- 31 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
8 There were once a King and a Queen , and they had a son called Sigurd , who was very strong and active , and good-looking .
9 When the King came to be bowed down with the weight of years he spoke to his son , and said that now it was time for him to look out for a fitting match for himself , for he did not know how long he might last now , and he would like to see him married before he died .
10 Sigurd was not averse to this , and asked his father where he thought it best to look for a wife .
11 The King answered that in a certain country there was a King who had a beautiful daughter , and he thought it would be most desirable if Sigurd could get her .
12 So the two parted , and Sigurd prepared for the journey , and went to where his father had directed him .
13 He came to the King and asked his daughter 's hand , which he readily granted him , but only on the condition that he should remain there as long as he could , for the King himself was not strong and not very able to govern his kingdom .
14 Sigurd accepted this condition , but added that he would have to get leave to go home again to his own country when he heard news of his father 's death .
15 After that Sigurd married the Princess , and helped his father-in-law to govern the kingdom .
16 He and the Princess loved each other dearly , and after a year a son came to them , who was two years old when word came to Sigurd that his father was dead .
17 Sigurd now prepared to return home with his wife and child , and went on board ship to go by sea .
18 They had sailed for several days , when the breeze suddenly fell , and there came a dead calm , at a time when they needed only one day 's voyage to reach home .
19 Sigurd and his Queen were one day on deck , when most of the others on the ship had fallen asleep .
20 There they sat and talked for a while , and had their little son along with them .
21 After a time Sigurd became so heavy with sleep that he could no longer keep awake , so he went below and lay down , leaving the Queen alone on the XXXXX , playing with her son .	deck		WITCH|child|coach|condition|country|deck|hand|news|soldiers|while

1 The old King was much grieved when they brought him the news of his son 's disappearance , but as he could do nothing to free him from his fate , he gave himself up to an old age of grief and loneliness , cherishing at the same time the hope that some lucky chance might one day deliver the youth out of the hands of his enemy .
2 Hardly had the Prince touched the ground than he felt himself violently seized by an unseen power , and hurried away he knew not whither .
3 A whole new world stretched out before him , quite unlike the one he had left .
4 A splendid castle surrounded by a huge lake was the abode of the Fairy , and the only approach to it was over a bridge of clouds .
5 On the other side of the lake high mountains rose up , and dark woods stretched along the banks ; over all hung a thick mist , and deep silence reigned everywhere .
6 No sooner had the Fairy reached her own domain than she made herself visible , and turning to the Prince she told him that unless he obeyed all her commands down to the minutest detail he would be severely punished .
7 Then she gave him an axe made of glass , and bade him cross the bridge of clouds and go into the wood beyond and cut down all the trees there before sunset .
8 At the same time she cautioned him with many angry words against speaking to a black girl he would most likely meet in the wood .
9 The Prince listened to her words meekly , and when she had finished took up the glass axe and set out for the forest .
10 At every step he seemed to sink into the clouds , but fear gave wings to his feet , and he crossed the lake in safety and set to work at once .
11 But no sooner had he struck the first blow with his axe than it broke into a thousand pieces against the tree .
12 The poor youth was so terrified he did not know what to do , for he was in mortal dread of the punishment the wicked old Fairy would inflict on him .
13 He wandered to and fro in the wood , not knowing where he was going , and at last , worn out by fatigue and misery , he sank on the ground and fell fast asleep .
14 He did not know how long he had slept when a sudden sound awoke him , and opening his eyes he saw a black girl standing beside him .
15 Mindful of the Fairy 's warning he did not dare to address her , but she on her part greeted him in the most friendly manner , and asked him at once if he were under the power of the wicked Fairy .
16 The Prince nodded his head silently in answer .
17 Then the black girl told him that she too was in the power of the Fairy , who had doomed her to wander about in her present guise until some youth should take pity on her and bear her in safety to the other side of the river which they saw in the distance , and on the other side of which the Fairy 's domain and power ended .
18 The girl 's words so inspired the Prince with confidence that he told her all his tale of woe , and ended up by asking her advice as to how he was to escape the punishment the Fairy would be sure to inflict on him when she discovered that he had not cut down the trees in the wood and that he had broken her axe .
19 ` You must know , ' answered the black girl , ` that the Fairy in whose power we both are is my own mother , but you must not betray this secret , for it would cost me my life .
20 If you will only promise to try and free me I will stand by you , and will accomplish for you all the tasks which my mother sets you . '
21 The Prince promised joyfully all she asked ; then having once more warned him not to betray her XXXXX , she handed him a draught to drink which very soon sunk his senses in a deep slumber .	confidence		blow|confidence|detail|domain|girl|guise|power|safety|step|wood

1 In the winter there was spare time to laugh and quarrel , woo and wed and -- were a man so minded -- dream , as did Rob Fletcher in his loneliness .
2 In a Racicot winter much was made of small things .
3 The arrival of Nora Shelley 's weekly letter to her father and mother was an event in the village .
4 The post-mistress in the Cove store spread the news that it had come , and that night the Shelley kitchen would be crowded .
5 Isobel Shelley , Nora 's younger sister , read the letter aloud by virtue of having gone to school long enough to be able to pronounce the words and tell where the places named were situated .
6 The Camerons had spent the autumn in New York and had then gone south for the winter .
7 Nora wrote freely of her new life .
8 In the beginning she admitted great homesickness , but after the first few letters she made no further mention of that .
9 She wrote little of herself , but she described fully the places she had visited , the people she had met , the wonderful things she had seen .
10 She sent affectionate messages to all her old friends and asked after all her old interests .
11 But the letters came to be more and more like those of a stranger and one apart from the Racicot life , and the father and mother felt it .
12 `` She 's changing , '' muttered old Nathan .
13 `` It had to be so -- it 's well for her that it is so -- but it hurts .
14 She ai n't ours any more .
15 We 've lost the girl , wife , lost her forever . ''
16 Rob Fletcher always came and listened to the letters in silence while the others buzzed and commented .
17 Rob , so the Harbour folk said , was much changed .
18 He had grown unsociable and preferred to stay home and read books rather than go a-visiting as did others .
19 The Harbour folk shook their heads over this .
20 There was something wrong with a man who read books when there was a plenty of other amusements .
21 Jacob Radnor had read XXXXX all one winter and had drowned himself in the spring -- jumped overboard from his dory at the herring nets .	books		amusements|books|friends|girl|interests|mother|people|sister|something|winter

1 ` Do n't remind me of them ! '
2 said the King .
3 Red , however , went on to say that , since Ring was such a mighty man that he could do everything , it had occurred to him to advise the King to ask him to search for these treasures , and come back with them before Christmas ; in return the King should promise him his daughter .
4 The King replied that he thought it altogether unbecoming to propose such a thing to Ring , seeing that he could not tell him where the things were ; but Red pretended not to hear the King 's excuses , and went on talking about it until the King gave in to him .
5 One day , a month or so before Christmas , the King spoke to Ring , saying that he wished to ask a great favour of him .
6 ` What is that ? '
7 said Ring .
8 ` It is this , ' said the King : ` that you find for me my gold cloak , my gold chess-board , and my bright gold piece , that were stolen from me about a year ago .
9 If you can bring them to me before Christmas I will give you my daughter in marriage . '
10 ` Where am I to look for them , then ? '
11 said Ring .
12 ` That you must find out for yourself , ' said the King : ' I do n't know . '
13 Ring now left the King , and was very silent , for he saw he was in a great difficulty : but , on the other hand , he thought it was excellent to have such a chance of winning the King 's daughter .
14 Snati noticed that his master was at a loss , and said to him that he should not disregard what the King had asked him to do ; but he would have to act upon his advice , otherwise he would get into great difficulties .
15 The Prince assented to this , and began to prepare for the journey .
16 After he had taken leave of the King , and was setting out on the search , Snati said to him , ` Now you must first of all go about the neighbourhood , and gather as much salt as ever you can . '
17 The Prince did so , and gathered so much salt that he could hardly carry it ; but Snati said , ` Throw it on my back , ' which he accordingly did , and the Dog then ran on before the Prince , until they came to the foot of a steep cliff .
18 ` We must go up here , ' said Snati . '
19 I do n't think that will be child 's play , ' said the Prince .
20 ` Hold fast by my tail , ' said Snati ; and in this way he pulled Ring up on the lowest shelf of the rock .
21 The Prince began to get giddy , but up went Snati on to the second XXXXX .	shelf		difficulty|favour|foot|hand|man|play|salt|shelf|tail|way

1 You see , Kotick had never fasted for four months as the big seals did every year , and his deep-sea swimming trips kept him in perfect condition , and , best of all , he had never fought before .
2 His curly white mane stood up with rage , and his eyes flamed , and his big dog teeth glistened , and he was splendid to look at .
3 Old Sea Catch , his father , saw him tearing past , hauling the grizzled old seals about as though they had been halibut , and upsetting the young bachelors in all directions ; and Sea Catch gave a roar and shouted : `` He may be a fool , but he is the best fighter on the beaches !
4 Do n't tackle your father , my son !
5 He 's with you ! ''
6 Kotick roared in answer , and old Sea Catch waddled in with his mustache on end , blowing like a locomotive , while Matkah and the seal that was going to marry Kotick cowered down and admired their men-folk .
7 It was a gorgeous fight , for the two fought as long as there was a seal that dared lift up his head , and when there were none they paraded grandly up and down the beach side by side , bellowing .
8 At night , just as the Northern Lights were winking and flashing through the fog , Kotick climbed a bare rock and looked down on the scattered nurseries and the torn and bleeding seals .
9 `` Now , '' he said , `` I 've taught you your lesson . ''
10 `` My wig ! ''
11 said old Sea Catch , boosting himself up stiffly , for he was fearfully mauled .
12 `` The Killer Whale himself could not have cut them up worse .
13 Son , I 'm proud of you , and what 's more , I 'll come with you to your island -- if there is such a place . ''
14 `` Hear you , fat pigs of the sea .
15 Who comes with me to the Sea Cow 's tunnel ?
16 Answer , or I shall teach you again , '' roared Kotick .
17 There was a murmur like the ripple of the tide all up and down the beaches .
18 `` We will come , '' said thousands of tired voices .
19 `` We will follow Kotick , the White Seal . ''
20 Then Kotick dropped his head between his shoulders and shut his eyes proudly .
21 He was not a white XXXXX any more , but red from head to tail .	seal		Killer|Sea|Son|fight|island|murmur|seal|seals|shoulders|tide

1 In a short time he married a pretty young wife , and lived with her in great peace and happiness .
2 One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field .
3 The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
4 Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid .
5 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
6 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves .
7 When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew very anxious , and when his game bag was found close to the mill-pond she guessed at once what had befallen him .
8 She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing .
9 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
10 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
11 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
12 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
13 The hunter 's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .
14 Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon , but it passed at last , and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond , combed her black hair with a golden comb , and when she had finished , placed the comb on the bank ; then she watched the water impatiently .
15 Soon she heard a rushing sound , and a big wave rose suddenly and swept the comb off the bank , and a minute after the head of her husband rose from the pond and gazed sadly at her .
16 But immediately another wave came , and the head sank back into the water without having said a word .
17 The pond lay still and motionless , glittering in the moonshine , and the hunter 's wife was not a bit better off than she had been before .
18 In despair she wandered about for days and nights , and at last , worn out by fatigue , she sank once more into a deep sleep , and dreamt exactly the same dream about the old witch .
19 So next morning she went again to the flowery meadow and sought the witch in her hut , and told her of her grief .
20 The old woman counselled her to go to the mill-pond the next full moon and play upon a golden flute , and then to lay the flute on the bank .
21 As soon as the next moon was full the hunter 's wife went to the mill-pond , played on a golden XXXXX , and when she had finished placed it on the bank .	flute		arms|blood|flute|hands|hare|head|round|time|waves|wife

1 `` All right , '' replied Peter promptly , turning his back to Old Mr. Toad .
2 `` I 'll look down the Crooked Little Path for five minutes and promise not to peek . ''
3 So Peter sat and gazed straight down the Crooked Little Path .
4 It was a great temptation to roll his eyes back and peep behind him , but he had given his word that he would n't , and he did n't .
5 When he thought the five minutes were up , he turned around .
6 Old Mr. Toad was nowhere to be seen .
7 Peter looked hastily this way and that way , but there was not a sign of Old Mr. Toad .
8 He had disappeared as completely as if he never had been there .
9 XV OLD MR. TOAD GIVES PETER A SCARE If you play pranks on other folks You may be sure that they Will take the first chance that they get A joke on you to play .
10 Old Mr. Toad was getting even with Peter for laughing at him .
11 While Peter 's back had been turned , Old Mr. Toad had disappeared .
12 It was too much for Peter .
13 Look as he would , he could n't see so much as a chip under which Old Mr. Toad might have hidden , excepting the old board , and Old Mr. Toad had given his word of honor that he would n't hide under that .
14 Nevertheless , Peter hopped over to it and turned it over again , because he could n't think of any other place to look .
15 Of course , Old Mr. Toad was n't there .
16 Of course not .
17 He had given his word that he would n't hide there , and he always lives up to his word .
18 Peter should have known better than to have looked there .
19 Old Mr. Toad had also said that he would not go three feet from the spot where he was sitting at the time , so Peter should have known better than to have raced up the Crooked Little Path as he did .
20 But if Old Mr. Toad had nothing to hide under , of course he must have hopped away , reasoned Peter .
21 He could n't hop far in five minutes , that was sure , and so Peter ran this way and that XXXXX a great deal farther than it would have been possible for Old Mr. Toad to have gone .	way		Mr.|back|chip|course|nothing|peep|place|temptation|way|word

1 `` Why , how dreadful ! ''
2 she said brightly .
3 `` I thought all boys and girls looked upon Christmas as the very best time in the year . ''
4 `` We do n't , '' said Frank gloomily .
5 `` It 's just the same old thing year in and year out .
6 We know just exactly what is going to happen .
7 We even know pretty well what presents we are going to get .
8 And Christmas Day itself is always the same .
9 We 'll get up in the morning , and our stockings will be full of things , and half of them we do n't want .
10 Then there 's dinner .
11 It 's always so poky .
12 And all the uncles and aunts come to dinner -- just the same old crowd , every year , and they say just the same things .
13 Aunt Desda always says , ` Why , Frankie , how you have grown ! '
14 She knows I hate to be called Frankie .
15 And after dinner they 'll sit round and talk the rest of the day , and that 's all .
16 Yes , I call Christmas a nuisance . ''
17 `` There is n't a single bit of fun in it , '' said Ida discontentedly .
18 `` Not a bit ! ''
19 said the twins , both together , as they always said things .
20 `` There 's lots of candy , '' said Darby stoutly .
21 He rather liked XXXXX , although he was ashamed to say so before Frank .	Christmas		Christmas|bit|boys|day|half|nuisance|rest|round|twins|uncles

1 The little group grew cheerful as they nibbled , and even the pale girl brightened up .
2 The little mother told Aunt Cyrilla her story aside .
3 She had been long estranged from her family , who had disapproved of her marriage .
4 Her husband had died the previous summer , leaving her in poor circumstances .
5 `` Father wrote to me last week and asked me to let bygones be bygones and come home for Christmas .
6 I was so glad .
7 And the children 's hearts were set on it .
8 It seems too bad that we are not to get there .
9 I have to be back at work the morning after Christmas . ''
10 The khaki boy came up again and shared the candy .
11 He told amusing stories of campaigning in South Africa .
12 The minister came too , and listened , and even the sealskin lady turned her head over her shoulder .
13 By and by the children fell asleep , one on Aunt Cyrilla 's lap and one on Lucy Rose 's , and two on the seat .
14 Aunt Cyrilla and the pale girl helped the mother make up beds for them .
15 The minister gave his overcoat and the sealskin lady came forward with a shawl .
16 `` This will do for the baby , '' she said .
17 `` We must get up some Santa Claus for these youngsters , '' said the khaki boy .
18 `` Let 's hang their stockings on the wall and fill 'em up as best we can .
19 I 've nothing about me but some hard cash and a jack-knife .
20 I 'll give each of 'em a quarter and the boy can have the knife . ''
21 `` I 've XXXXX but money either , '' said the sealskin lady regretfully .	nothing		Aunt|candy|group|hearts|lady|lap|mother|nothing|wall|youngsters

1 He wandered about all day full of despair and misery , and when he lay down at night he could get no rest , but lay awake all night sunk in sorrowful thoughts .
2 One morning he rose up before dawn and went outside , for he thought his heart would be lighter in the open air .
3 As he wandered up and down on the banks of the mill-pond he heard a rustling in the water , and when he looked near he saw a white woman rising up from the waves .
4 He realised at once that this could be none other than the nixy of the mill-pond , and in his terror he did n't know if he should fly away or remain where he was .
5 While he hesitated the nixy spoke , called him by his name , and asked him why he was so sad .
6 When the miller heard how friendly her tone was , he plucked up heart and told her how rich and prosperous he had been all his life up till now , when he did n't know what he was to do for want and misery .
7 Then the nixy spoke comforting words to him , and promised that she would make him richer and more prosperous than he had ever been in his life before , if he would give her in return the youngest thing in his house .
8 The miller thought she must mean one of his puppies or kittens , so promised the nixy at once what she asked , and returned to his mill full of hope .
9 On the threshold he was greeted by a servant with the news that his wife had just given birth to a boy .
10 The poor miller was much horrified by these tidings , and went in to his wife with a heavy heart to tell her and his relations of the fatal bargain he had just struck with the nixy . '
11 I would gladly give up all the good fortune she promised me , ' he said , ` if I could only save my child . '
12 But no one could think of any advice to give him , beyond taking care that the child never went near the mill-pond .
13 So the boy throve and grew big , and in the meantime all prospered with the miller , and in a few years he was richer than he had ever been before .
14 But all the same he did not enjoy his good fortune , for he could not forget his compact with the nixy , and he knew that sooner or later she would demand his fulfilment of it .
15 But year after year went by , and the boy grew up and became a great hunter , and the lord of the land took him into his service , for he was as smart and bold a hunter as you would wish to see .
16 In a short time he married a pretty young wife , and lived with her in great peace and happiness .
17 One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field .
18 The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
19 Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid .
20 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
21 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the XXXXX .	waves		advice|childhood|kittens|name|peace|rest|terror|thing|threshold|waves

1 The Queen consented with many tears , and the King at once bade his son set forth in search of the Tree of the Sun , from which he was to pluck a golden apple .
2 The Prince was delighted at the prospect , and set out on his travels that very day .
3 For a long time he wandered all through the world , and it was not till the ninety-ninth day after he started that he found an old man who was able to tell him where the Tree of the Sun grew .
4 He followed his directions , and rode on his way , and after another ninety-nine days he arrived at a golden castle , which stood in the middle of a vast wilderness .
5 He knocked at the door , which was opened noiselessly and by invisible hands .
6 Finding no one about , the Prince rode on , and came to a great meadow , where the Sun-Tree grew .
7 When he reached the tree he put out his hand to pick a golden apple ; but all of a sudden the tree grew higher , so that he could not reach its fruit .
8 Then he heard some one behind him laughing .
9 Turning round , he saw the girl in red walking towards him , who addressed him in these words : ` Do you really imagine , brave son of the earth , that you can pluck an apple so easily from the Tree of the Sun ?
10 Before you can do that , you have a difficult task before you .
11 You must guard the tree for nine days and nine nights from the ravages of two wild black wolves , who will try to harm it .
12 Do you think you can undertake this ? '
13 ` Yes , ' answered the Sun-Hero , ' I will guard the Tree of the Sun nine days and nine nights . '
14 Then the girl continued : ` Remember , though , if you do not succeed the Sun will kill you .
15 Now begin your watch . '
16 With these words the Red Girl went back into the golden castle .
17 She had hardly left him when the two black wolves appeared : but the Sun-Hero beat them off with his sword , and they retired , only , however , to reappear in a very short time .
18 The Sun-Hero chased them away once more , but he had hardly sat down to rest when the two black wolves were on the scene again .
19 This went on for seven days and nights , when the white horse , who had never done such a thing before , turned to the Sun-Hero and said in a human voice : ` Listen to what I am going to say .
20 A Fairy gave me to your mother in order that I might be of service to you ; so let me tell you , that if you go to sleep and let the wolves harm the tree , the Sun will surely kill you .
21 The Fairy , foreseeing this , put everyone in the world under a spell , which prevents their obeying the XXXXX 's command to take your life .	Sun		Sun|castle|door|girl|horse|ravages|round|sword|travels|wolves

1 And she told him that a bottle would be found in her nest in the garden , containing some drops from the spring of healing .
2 And it was brought to her ; and the ducklings and little drake were sprinkled with the water , and from the little dead bodies three lovely children arose .
3 And the King and Queen were overjoyed when they saw their children , and they all lived happily together in the beautiful palace .
4 But the wicked witch was taken by the King 's command , and she came to no good end .
5 THE WITCH AND HER SERVANTS -LRB- 22 -RRB- -LRB- 22 -RRB- From the Russian .
6 Kletke .
7 Long time ago there lived a King who had three sons ; the eldest was called Szabo , the second Warza , and the youngest Iwanich .
8 One beautiful spring morning the King was walking through his gardens with these three sons , gazing with admiration at the various fruit-trees , some of which were a mass of blossom , whilst others were bowed to the ground laden with rich fruit .
9 During their wanderings they came unperceived on a piece of waste land where three splendid trees grew .
10 The King looked on them for a moment , and then , shaking his head sadly , he passed on in silence .
11 The sons , who could not understand why he did this , asked him the reason of his dejection , and the King told them as follows : ` These three trees , which I can not see without sorrow , were planted by me on this spot when I was a youth of twenty .
12 A celebrated magician , who had given the seed to my father , promised him that they would grow into the three finest trees the world had ever seen .
13 My father did not live to see his words come true ; but on his death-bed he bade me transplant them here , and to look after them with the greatest care , which I accordingly did .
14 At last , after the lapse of five long years , I noticed some blossoms on the branches , and a few days later the most exquisite fruit my eyes had ever seen . '
15 I gave my head-gardener the strictest orders to watch the trees carefully , for the magician had warned my father that if one unripe fruit were plucked from the tree , all the rest would become rotten at once .
16 When it was quite ripe the fruit would become a golden yellow .
17 ` Every day I gazed on the lovely fruit , which became gradually more and more tempting-looking , and it was all I could do not to break the magician 's commands .
18 ` One night I dreamt that the fruit was perfectly ripe ; I ate some of it , and it was more delicious than anything I had ever tasted in real life .
19 As soon as I awoke I sent for the gardener and asked him if the fruit on the three trees had not ripened in the night to perfection .
20 ` But instead of replying , the gardener threw himself at my feet and swore that he was innocent .
21 He said that he had watched by the trees all night , but in spite of it , and as if by magic , the beautiful trees had been robbed of all their XXXXX .	fruit		bodies|command|dejection|drake|fruit|life|magician|tree|wanderings|words

1 Baloo and thou are wounded .
2 It is just . ''
3 Bagheera gave him half a dozen love-taps from a panther 's point of view -LRB- they would hardly have waked one of his own cubs -RRB- , but for a seven-year-old boy they amounted to as severe a beating as you could wish to avoid .
4 When it was all over Mowgli sneezed , and picked himself up without a word .
5 `` Now , '' said Bagheera , `` jump on my back , Little Brother , and we will go home . ''
6 One of the beauties of Jungle Law is that punishment settles all scores .
7 There is no nagging afterward .
8 Mowgli laid his head down on Bagheera 's back and slept so deeply that he never waked when he was put down in the home-cave .
9 Road-Song of the Bandar-Log Here we go in a flung festoon , Half-way up to the jealous moon !
10 Do n't you envy our pranceful bands ?
11 Do n't you wish you had extra hands ?
12 Would n't you like if your tails were -- so -- Curved in the shape of a Cupid 's bow ?
13 Now you 're angry , but -- never mind , Brother , thy tail hangs down behind !
14 Here we sit in a branchy row , Thinking of beautiful things we know ; Dreaming of deeds that we mean to do , All complete , in a minute or two -- Something noble and wise and good , Done by merely wishing we could .
15 We 've forgotten , but -- never mind , Brother , thy tail hangs down behind !
16 All the talk we ever have heard Uttered by bat or beast or bird -- Hide or fin or scale or feather -- Jabber it quickly and all together !
17 Excellent !
18 Wonderful !
19 Once again !
20 Now we are talking just like men !
21 Let 's pretend we are ... never mind , Brother , thy XXXXX hangs down behind !	tail		Something|bands|beast|bow|panther|punishment|scale|scores|tail|tails

1 Before Hermod sat down , however , he went to where the rat and the mouse were fighting , and cut them in two with his sword .
2 All were astonished then by seeing two witches lying dead on the floor of the hall .
3 Hermod now told the whole story to the King , who was very glad to be rid of such vile creatures .
4 Next he asked for the hand of Hadvor , which the King readily gave him , and being now an old man , gave the kingdom to him as well ; and so Hermod became King .
5 Olof married a good-looking nobleman , and that is the end of the story .
6 THE STEADFAST TIN-SOLDIER There were once upon a time five-and twenty tin-soldiers -- all brothers , as they were made out of the same old tin spoon .
7 Their uniform was red and blue , and they shouldered their guns and looked straight in front of them .
8 The first words that they heard in this world , when the lid of the box in which they lay was taken off , were : ` Hurrah , tin-soldiers ! '
9 This was exclaimed by a little boy , clapping his hands ; they had been given to him because it was his birthday , and now he began setting them out on the table .
10 Each soldier was exactly like the other in shape , except just one , who had been made last when the tin had run short ; but there he stood as firmly on his one leg as the others did on two , and he is the one that became famous .
11 There were many other playthings on the table on which they were being set out , but the nicest of all was a pretty little castle made of cardboard , with windows through which you could see into the rooms .
12 In front of the castle stood some little trees surrounding a tiny mirror which looked like a lake .
13 Wax swans were floating about and reflecting themselves in it .
14 That was all very pretty ; but the most beautiful thing was a little lady , who stood in the open doorway .
15 She was cut out of paper , but she had on a dress of the finest muslin , with a scarf of narrow blue ribbon round her shoulders , fastened in the middle with a glittering rose made of gold paper , which was as large as her head .
16 The little lady was stretching out both her arms , for she was a Dancer , and was lifting up one leg so high in the air that the Tin-soldier could n't find it anywhere , and thought that she , too , had only one leg .
17 ` That 's the wife for me ! '
18 he thought ; ` but she is so grand , and lives in a castle , whilst I have only a box with four-and-twenty others .
19 This is no place for her !
20 But I must make her acquaintance . '
21 Then he stretched himself out behind a snuff-box that lay on the XXXXX ; from thence he could watch the dainty little lady , who continued to stand on one leg without losing her balance .	table		hall|hands|man|place|soldier|sword|table|trees|uniform|wife

1 It did n't seem possible that such a great paw could be so gentle .
2 `` Now , '' said Buster Bear in a voice which he tried to make sound pleasant , but which was grumbly-rumbly just the same , `` I know where there is a fine dinner waiting for us just a little way from here .
3 You follow me , and we 'll have it in no time . ''
4 So Buster Bear led the way , and Old Mr. Toad followed as fast as he could , because he did n't dare not to .
5 Presently Buster stopped beside a big decayed old log .
6 `` If you are ready , Mr. Toad , we will dine now , '' said he .
7 Old Mr. Toad did n't see anything to eat .
8 His heart sank again , and he shook all over .
9 `` I -- I 'm not hungry , '' said he in a very faint voice .
10 Buster Bear did n't seem to hear .
11 He hooked his great claws into the old log and gave a mighty pull .
12 Over rolled the log , and there were ants and ants and ants , hurrying this way and scurrying that way , more ants than Mr. Toad had seen in all his life before !
13 `` Help yourself , '' said Buster Bear politely .
14 Old Mr. Toad did n't wait to be told twice .
15 He forgot all about his fright .
16 He forgot all about Buster Bear .
17 He forgot that he was n't hungry .
18 He forgot his manners .
19 He jumped right in among those ants , and for a little while he was the busiest Toad ever seen .
20 Buster Bear was busy too .
21 He swept his long tongue this XXXXX , and he swept it that way , and each time he drew it back into his mouth , it was covered with ants .	way		Mr.|ants|claws|fright|heart|log|manners|pull|voice|way

1 She could sing , too , with a voice more soft and sweet than had ever been heard before .
2 One night , when she was lying in her pretty little bed , an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window .
3 She was very ugly , clumsy , and clammy ; she hopped on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose-leaf .
4 ` This would make a beautiful wife for my son , ' said the toad , taking up the walnut-shell , with Thumbelina inside , and hopping with it through the window into the garden .
5 There flowed a great wide stream , with slippery and marshy banks ; here the toad lived with her son .
6 Ugh !
7 how ugly and clammy he was , just like his mother !
8 ` Croak , croak , croak ! '
9 was all he could say when he saw the pretty little girl in the walnut-shell .
10 ` Do n't talk so load , or you 'll wake her , ' said the old toad .
11 ` She might escape us even now ; she is as light as a feather .
12 We will put her at once on a broad water-lily leaf in the stream .
13 That will be quite an island for her ; she is so small and light .
14 She ca n't run away from us there , whilst we are preparing the guest-chamber under the marsh where she shall live . '
15 Outside in the brook grew many water-lilies , with broad green leaves , which looked as if they were swimming about on the water .
16 The leaf farthest away was the largest , and to this the old toad swam with Thumbelina in her walnut-shell .
17 The tiny Thumbelina woke up very early in the morning , and when she saw where she was she began to cry bitterly ; for on every side of the great green leaf was water , and she could not get to the land .
18 The old toad was down under the marsh , decorating her room with rushes and yellow marigold leaves , to make it very grand for her new daughter-in-law ; then she swam out with her ugly son to the leaf where Thumbelina lay .
19 She wanted to fetch the pretty cradle to put it into her room before Thumbelina herself came there .
20 The old toad bowed low in the water before her , and said : ` Here is my son ; you shall marry him , and live in great magnificence down under the marsh . '
21 ` XXXXX , croak , croak ! '	Croak		Croak|banks|bed|land|light|magnificence|marsh|son|water|window

1 This time there were TWO little shrieks , and more sounds of broken glass .
2 ` What a number of cucumber-frames there must be ! '
3 thought Alice . '
4 I wonder what they 'll do next !
5 As for pulling me out of the window , I only wish they COULD !
6 I 'm sure I do n't want to stay in here any longer ! '
7 She waited for some time without hearing anything more : at last came a rumbling of little cartwheels , and the sound of a good many voices all talking together : she made out the words : ` Where 's the other ladder ?
8 -- Why , I had n't to bring but one ; Bill 's got the other -- Bill !
9 fetch it here , lad !
10 -- Here , put 'em up at this corner -- No , tie 'em together first -- they do n't reach half high enough yet -- Oh !
11 they 'll do well enough ; do n't be particular -- Here , Bill !
12 catch hold of this rope -- Will the roof bear ?
13 -- Mind that loose slate -- Oh , it 's coming down !
14 Heads below ! '
15 -LRB- a loud crash -RRB- -- ` Now , who did that ?
16 -- It was Bill , I fancy -- Who 's to go down the chimney ?
17 -- Nay , I sha n't !
18 YOU do it !
19 -- That I wo n't , then !
20 -- Bill 's to go down -- Here , Bill !
21 the master says you 're to go down the XXXXX ! '	chimney		Bill|Mind|chimney|corner|lad|number|slate|sounds|time|window

1 This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again .
2 In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice , and shook itself .
3 Then it got down off the mushroom , and crawled away in the grass , merely remarking as it went , ` One side will make you grow taller , and the other side will make you grow shorter . '
4 ` One side of WHAT ?
5 The other side of WHAT ? '
6 thought Alice to herself .
7 ` Of the mushroom , ' said the Caterpillar , just as if she had asked it aloud ; and in another moment it was out of sight .
8 Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute , trying to make out which were the two sides of it ; and as it was perfectly round , she found this a very difficult question .
9 However , at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go , and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand .
10 ` And now which is which ? '
11 she said to herself , and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect : the next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin : it had struck her foot !
12 She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change , but she felt that there was no time to be lost , as she was shrinking rapidly ; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit .
13 Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot , that there was hardly room to open her mouth ; but she did it at last , and managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit .
14 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ` Come , my head 's free at last ! '
15 said Alice in a tone of delight , which changed into alarm in another moment , when she found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found : all she could see , when she looked down , was an immense length of neck , which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her .
16 ` What CAN all that green stuff be ? '
17 said Alice .
18 ` And where HAVE my shoulders got to ?
19 And oh , my poor hands , how is it I ca n't see you ? '
20 She was moving them about as she spoke , but no result seemed to follow , except a little shaking among the distant green leaves .
21 As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head , she tried to get her XXXXX down to them , and was delighted to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction , like a serpent .	head		blow|foot|hands|head|morsel|question|room|shoulders|stuff|time

1 I do dote on brown eyes .
2 The Creature will be sure to have fishy blue ones . ''
3 * * * * * When the Girl went down to meet the Creature she found herself confronted by the Young Man .
4 For the first , last , and only time in her life , the Girl had not a word to say .
5 But her family thought her confusion very natural and pretty .
6 They really had not expected her to behave so well .
7 As for the Young Man , his manner was flawless .
8 Toward the end of the dinner , when the Girl was beginning to recover herself , he turned to her .
9 `` You know I promised never to tell , '' he said .
10 `` Be sure you do n't , then , '' said the Girl meekly .
11 `` But are n't you glad you left the loophole ? ''
12 he persisted .
13 The Girl smiled down into her lap .
14 `` Perhaps , '' she said .
15 Aunt Cyrilla 's Christmas Basket When Lucy Rose met Aunt Cyrilla coming downstairs , somewhat flushed and breathless from her ascent to the garret , with a big , flat-covered basket hanging over her plump arm , she gave a little sigh of despair .
16 Lucy Rose had done her brave best for some years -- in fact , ever since she had put up her hair and lengthened her skirts -- to break Aunt Cyrilla of the habit of carrying that basket with her every time she went to Pembroke ; but Aunt Cyrilla still insisted on taking it , and only laughed at what she called Lucy Rose 's `` finicky notions . ''
17 Lucy Rose had a horrible , haunting idea that it was extremely provincial for her aunt always to take the big basket , packed full of country good things , whenever she went to visit Edward and Geraldine .
18 Geraldine was so stylish , and might think it queer ; and then Aunt Cyrilla always would carry it on her arm and give cookies and apples and molasses taffy out of it to every child she encountered and , just as often as not , to older folks too .
19 Lucy Rose , when she went to town with Aunt Cyrilla , felt chagrined over this -- all of which goes to prove that Lucy was as yet very young and had a great deal to learn in this world .
20 That troublesome worry over what Geraldine would think nerved her to make a protest in this instance .
21 `` Now , Aunt C'rilla , '' she pleaded , `` you 're surely not going to take that funny old basket to Pembroke this XXXXX -- Christmas Day and all . '' ''	time		Girl|arm|child|family|hair|instance|lap|molasses|time|word

1 Juliet , with her white silken skirts caught up above grasses and dust , ran light-footedly through the green lowland fields and up the hill , treading for the first time the faint old field-path between the two homes , so long disused that it was now barely visible in its fringing grasses and star-dust of buttercups .
2 Where it ran into the spruce grove was a tiny gate which Miss Corona had always kept in good repair , albeit it was never used .
3 Juliet pushed up the rusty hasp and ran through .
4 Miss Corona was sitting alone in her shadowy parlour , hanging over a few of the bride roses with falling tears , when something tall and beautiful and white , came in like a blessing and knelt by her chair .
5 `` Cousin Corona , '' said a somewhat breathless bride , `` I have come to thank you for your roses and ask you to forgive us all for the old quarrel . ''
6 `` Dear child , '' said Miss Corona out of her amazement , `` there is nothing to forgive .
7 I 've loved you all and longed for you .
8 Dear child , you have brought me great happiness . ''
9 `` And you must come to my wedding , '' cried Juliet .
10 `` Oh , you must -- or I shall think you have not really forgiven us .
11 You would never refuse the request of a bride , Cousin Corona .
12 We are queens on our wedding day , you know . ''
13 `` Oh , it 's not that , dear child -- but I 'm not dressed -- I -- '' `` I 'll help you dress .
14 And I wo n't go back without you .
15 The guests and the minister must wait if necessary -- yes , even Romney must wait .
16 Oh , I want you to meet Romney .
17 Come , dear . ''
18 And Miss Corona went .
19 Charlotta and the bride got her into her grey silk and did her hair , and in a very short time she and Juliet were hurrying down the old field-path .
20 In the hollow Meredith Gordon met them .
21 `` Cousin Meredith , '' said XXXXX Corona tremulously .	Miss		Miss|bride|dust|grasses|grove|hill|homes|request|roses|silk

1 Keep your spirits up . '
2 And with these words he trotted quickly away .
3 Then the youth rejoiced greatly , for now he felt that his life was safe ; but he grew very sad when he thought of the beautiful Princess , and that he would never see her again if he left the country .
4 He lay down once more on the grass and soon fell fast asleep .
5 All the next day he spent wandering about the fields , and toward evening the wolf came running to him in a great hurry and said , ' I have collected together all the wolves in the kingdom , and they are waiting for you in the wood .
6 Go quickly to the King , and tell him to go to the hill that he may see the wonder you have done with his own eyes .
7 Then return at once to me and get on my back , and I will help you to drive all the wolves together . '
8 Then Ferko went straight to the palace and told the King that he was ready to perform the third task if he would come to the hill and see it done .
9 Ferko himself returned to the fields , and mounting on the wolf 's back he rode to the wood close by .
10 Quick as lightning the wolf flew round the wood , and in a minute many hundred wolves rose up before him , increasing in number every moment , till they could be counted by thousands .
11 He drove them all before him on to the hill , where the King and his whole Court and Ferko 's two brothers were standing .
12 Only the lovely Princess was not present , for she was shut up in her tower weeping bitterly .
13 The wicked brothers stamped and foamed with rage when they saw the failure of their wicked designs .
14 But the King was overcome by a sudden terror when he saw the enormous pack of wolves approaching nearer and nearer , and calling out to Ferko he said , ` Enough , enough , we do n't want any more . '
15 But the wolf on whose back Ferko sat , said to its rider , ` Go on !
16 go on ! '
17 and at the same moment many more wolves ran up the hill , howling horribly and showing their white teeth .
18 The King in his terror called out , ` Stop a moment ; I will give you half my kingdom if you will drive all the wolves away . '
19 But Ferko pretended not to hear , and drove some more thousands before him , so that everyone quaked with horror and fear .
20 Then the King raised his voice again and called out , ` Stop !
21 you shall have my whole kingdom , if you will only drive these XXXXX back to the places they came from . '	wolves		brothers|designs|failure|fields|hill|life|moment|task|wolves|words

1 And the King and Queen were overjoyed when they saw their children , and they all lived happily together in the beautiful palace .
2 But the wicked witch was taken by the King 's command , and she came to no good end .
3 THE WITCH AND HER SERVANTS -LRB- 22 -RRB- -LRB- 22 -RRB- From the Russian .
4 Kletke .
5 Long time ago there lived a King who had three sons ; the eldest was called Szabo , the second Warza , and the youngest Iwanich .
6 One beautiful spring morning the King was walking through his gardens with these three sons , gazing with admiration at the various fruit-trees , some of which were a mass of blossom , whilst others were bowed to the ground laden with rich fruit .
7 During their wanderings they came unperceived on a piece of waste land where three splendid trees grew .
8 The King looked on them for a moment , and then , shaking his head sadly , he passed on in silence .
9 The sons , who could not understand why he did this , asked him the reason of his dejection , and the King told them as follows : ` These three trees , which I can not see without sorrow , were planted by me on this spot when I was a youth of twenty .
10 A celebrated magician , who had given the seed to my father , promised him that they would grow into the three finest trees the world had ever seen .
11 My father did not live to see his words come true ; but on his death-bed he bade me transplant them here , and to look after them with the greatest care , which I accordingly did .
12 At last , after the lapse of five long years , I noticed some blossoms on the branches , and a few days later the most exquisite fruit my eyes had ever seen . '
13 I gave my head-gardener the strictest orders to watch the trees carefully , for the magician had warned my father that if one unripe fruit were plucked from the tree , all the rest would become rotten at once .
14 When it was quite ripe the fruit would become a golden yellow .
15 ` Every day I gazed on the lovely fruit , which became gradually more and more tempting-looking , and it was all I could do not to break the magician 's commands .
16 ` One night I dreamt that the fruit was perfectly ripe ; I ate some of it , and it was more delicious than anything I had ever tasted in real life .
17 As soon as I awoke I sent for the gardener and asked him if the fruit on the three trees had not ripened in the night to perfection .
18 ` But instead of replying , the gardener threw himself at my feet and swore that he was innocent .
19 He said that he had watched by the trees all night , but in spite of it , and as if by magic , the beautiful trees had been robbed of all their fruit .
20 ` Grieved as I was over the theft , I did not punish the gardener , of whose fidelity I was well assured , but I determined to pluck off all the fruit in the following year before it was ripe , as I had not much belief in the magician 's warning . '
21 I carried out my intention , and had all the XXXXX picked off the tree , but when I tasted one of the apples it was bitter and unpleasant , and the next morning the rest of the fruit had all rotted away .	fruit		WITCH|admiration|command|fruit|magician|rest|seed|spring|world|youth

1 But the doggie beneath the table began to bark , saying : ` Your daughter is frozen quite stiff and cold , And shall never have a chest full of gold . '
2 ` Do n't tell such wicked lies ! '
3 scolded the woman .
4 ` There 's a cake for you ; now say : `` HER daughter shall marry a mighty King . ''
5 At that moment the door flew open , and she rushed out to meet her daughter , and as she took her frozen body in her arms she too was chilled to death .
6 THE DEATH OF THE SUN-HERO -LRB- 27 -RRB- -LRB- 27 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends .
7 Von Wliolocki .
8 Many , many thousand years ago there lived a mighty King whom heaven had blessed with a clever and beautiful son .
9 When he was only ten years old the boy was cleverer than all the King 's counsellors put together , and when he was twenty he was the greatest hero in the whole kingdom .
10 His father could not make enough of his son , and always had him clothed in golden garments which shone and sparkled like the sun ; and his mother gave him a white horse , which never slept , and which flew like the wind .
11 All the people in the land loved him dearly , and called him the Sun-Hero , for they did not think his like existed under the sun .
12 Now it happened one night that both his parents had the same extraordinary dream .
13 They dreamt that a girl all dressed in red had come to them and said : ` If you wish that your son should really become the Sun-Hero in deed and not only in name , let him go out into the world and search for the Tree of the Sun , and when he has found it , let him pluck a golden apple from it and bring it home . '
14 When the King and Queen had each related their dreams to the other , they were much amazed that they should both have dreamt exactly the same about their son , and the King said to his wife , ` This is clearly a sign from heaven that we should send our son out into the world in order that he may come home the great Sun-Hero , as the Red Girl said , not only in name but in deed . '
15 The Queen consented with many tears , and the King at once bade his son set forth in search of the Tree of the Sun , from which he was to pluck a golden apple .
16 The Prince was delighted at the prospect , and set out on his travels that very day .
17 For a long time he wandered all through the world , and it was not till the ninety-ninth day after he started that he found an old man who was able to tell him where the Tree of the Sun grew .
18 He followed his directions , and rode on his way , and after another ninety-nine days he arrived at a golden castle , which stood in the middle of a vast wilderness .
19 He knocked at the door , which was opened noiselessly and by invisible hands .
20 Finding no one about , the Prince rode on , and came to a great meadow , where the Sun-Tree grew .
21 When he reached the tree he put out his hand to pick a golden XXXXX ; but all of a sudden the tree grew higher , so that he could not reach its fruit .	apple		Sun|Tree|apple|castle|door|dreams|garments|gold|man|years

1 Three-and-thirty times it sang the same piece without being tired .
2 People would like to have heard it again , but the Emperor thought that the living Nightingale should sing now -- but where was she ?
3 No one had noticed that she had flown out of the open window away to her green woods .
4 ` What SHALL we do ! '
5 said the Emperor .
6 And all the Court scolded , and said that the Nightingale was very ungrateful .
7 ` But we have still the best bird ! '
8 they said and the artificial bird had to sing again , and that was the thirty-fourth time they had heard the same piece .
9 But they did not yet know it by heart ; it was much too difficult .
10 And the bandmaster praised the bird tremendously ; yes , he assured them it was better than a real nightingale , not only because of its beautiful plumage and diamonds , but inside as well .
11 ` For see , my Lords and Ladies and your Imperial Majesty , with the real Nightingale one can never tell what will come out , but all is known about the artificial bird !
12 You can explain it , you can open it and show people where the waltzes lie , how they go , and how one follows the other ! '
13 ` That 's just what we think ! '
14 said everyone ; and the bandmaster received permission to show the bird to the people the next Sunday .
15 They should hear it sing , commanded the Emperor .
16 And they heard it , and they were as pleased as if they had been intoxicated with tea , after the Chinese fashion , and they all said ` Oh ! '
17 and held up their forefingers and nodded time .
18 But the poor fishermen who had heard the real Nightingale said : ` This one sings well enough , the tunes glide out ; but there is something wanting -- I do n't know what ! '
19 The real Nightingale was banished from the kingdom .
20 The artificial bird was put on silken cushions by the Emperor 's bed , all the presents which it received , gold and precious stones , lay round it , and it was given the title of Imperial Night-singer , First from the left .
21 For the Emperor counted that side as the more distinguished , being the side on which the heart is ; the Emperor 's XXXXX is also on the left .	heart		Nightingale|cushions|fashion|forefingers|heart|kingdom|one|round|stones|times

1 I am so beautifully warm !
2 Soon I shall regain my strength , and then I shall be able to fly out again into the warm sunshine . '
3 ` Oh ! '
4 she said , ` it is very cold outside ; it is snowing and freezing !
5 stay in your warm bed ; I will take care of you ! '
6 Then she brought him water in a petal , which he drank , after which he related to her how he had torn one of his wings on a bramble , so that he could not fly as fast as the other swallows , who had flown far away to warmer lands .
7 So at last he had dropped down exhausted , and then he could remember no more .
8 The whole winter he remained down there , and Thumbelina looked after him and nursed him tenderly .
9 Neither the mole nor the field-mouse learnt anything of this , for they could not bear the poor swallow .
10 When the spring came , and the sun warmed the earth again , the swallow said farewell to Thumbelina , who opened the hole in the roof for him which the mole had made .
11 The sun shone brightly down upon her , and the swallow asked her if she would go with him ; she could sit upon his back .
12 Thumbelina wanted very much to fly far away into the green wood , but she knew that the old field-mouse would be sad if she ran away .
13 ` No , I must n't come ! '
14 she said .
15 ` Farewell , dear good little girl ! '
16 said the swallow , and flew off into the sunshine .
17 Thumbelina gazed after him with the tears standing in her eyes , for she was very fond of the swallow .
18 ` Tweet , tweet ! '
19 sang the bird , and flew into the green wood .
20 Thumbelina was very unhappy .
21 She was not allowed to go out into the warm XXXXX .	sunshine		bed|bird|earth|girl|hole|mole|sunshine|swallows|wings|winter

1 Iwanich was much horrified at the sight before him , and asked the man what terrible crime he had committed to be punished in this dreadful fashion . '
2 I will tell you everything , ' said the man in the cauldron ; ` but first relieve my torments a little , I implore you . '
3 ` And how can I do that ? '
4 asked the Prince .
5 ` With a little water , ' replied the man ; ` only sprinkle a few drops over me and I shall feel better . '
6 The Prince , moved by pity , without thinking what he was doing , ran to the courtyard of the castle , and filled a jug with water , which he poured over the man in the cauldron .
7 In a moment a most fearful crash was heard , as if all the pillars of the palace were giving way , and the palace itself , with towers and doors , windows and the cauldron , whirled round the bewildered Prince 's head .
8 This continued for a few minutes , and then everything vanished into thin air , and Iwanich found himself suddenly alone upon a desolate heath covered with rocks and stones .
9 The Prince , who now realised what his heedlessness had done , cursed too late his spirit of curiosity .
10 In his despair he wandered on over the heath , never looking where he put his feet , and full of sorrowful thoughts .
11 At last he saw a light in the distance , which came from a miserable-looking little hut .
12 The owner of it was none other than the kind-hearted gaunt grey beggar who had given the Prince the bag of bread-crumbs and the hare .
13 Without recognising Iwanich , he opened the door when he knocked and gave him shelter for the night .
14 On the following morning the Prince asked his host if he could get him any work to do , as he was quite unknown in the neighbourhood , and had not enough money to take him home .
15 ` My son , ' replied the old man , ` all this country round here is uninhabited ; I myself have to wander to distant villages for my living , and even then I do not very often find enough to satisfy my hunger .
16 But if you would like to take service with the old witch Corva , go straight up the little stream which flows below my hut for about three hours , and you will come to a sand-hill on the left-hand side ; that is where she lives . '
17 Iwanich thanked the gaunt grey beggar for his information , and went on his way .
18 After walking for about three hours the Prince came upon a dreary-looking grey stone wall ; this was the back of the building and did not attract him ; but when he came upon the front of the house he found it even less inviting , for the old witch had surrounded her dwelling with a fence of spikes , on every one of which a man 's skull was stuck .
19 In this horrible enclosure stood a small black house , which had only two grated windows , all covered with cobwebs , and a battered iron door .
20 The Prince knocked , and a rasping woman 's voice told him to enter .
21 Iwanich opened the XXXXX , and found himself in a smoke-begrimed kitchen , in the presence of a hideous old woman who was warming her skinny hands at a fire .	door		air|beggar|cobwebs|door|hare|house|man|money|pillars|stream

1 On this elegant couch lay Prince Rainbow , looking more beautiful than ever , and sunk in profound slumber , in which he had been held ever since his disappearance .
2 Fairy-than-a-Fairy , who now saw him for the first time in his real shape , hardly dared to gaze at him , fearing lest his appearance might not be in keeping with the voice and language which had won her heart .
3 At the same time she could not help feeling rather hurt at the apparent indifference with which she was received .
4 She related all the dangers and difficulties she had gone through , and though she repeated the story twenty times in a loud clear voice , the Prince slept on and took no heed .
5 She then had recourse to the golden pomegranate , and on opening it found that all the seeds were as many little violins which flew up in the vaulted roof and at once began playing melodiously .
6 The Prince was not completely roused , but he opened his eyes a little and looked all the handsomer .
7 Impatient at not being recognised , Fairer-than-a-Fairy now drew out her third present , and on opening the crystal scent-bottle a little syren flew out , who silenced the violins and then sang close to the Prince 's ear the story of all his lady love had suffered in her search for him .
8 She added some gentle reproaches to her tale , but before she had got far he was wide awake , and transported with joy threw himself at the Princess 's feet .
9 At the same moment the walls of the room expanded and opened out , revealing a golden throne covered with jewels .
10 A magnificent Court now began to assemble , and at the same time several elegant carriages filled with ladies in magnificent dresses drove up .
11 In the first and most splendid of these carriages sat Prince Rainbow 's mother .
12 She fondly embraced her son , after which she informed him that his father had been dead for some years , that the anger of the Fairies was at length appeased , and that he might return in peace to reign over his people , who were longing for his presence .
13 The Court received the new King with joyful acclamations which would have delighted him at any other time , but all his thoughts were full of Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
14 He was just about to present her to his mother and the Court , feeling sure that her charms would win all hearts , when the three green and white sisters appeared .
15 They declared the secret of Fairy-than-a-Fairy 's royal birth , and the Queen taking the two lovers in her carriage set off with them for the capital of the kingdom .
16 Here they were received with tumultuous joy .
17 The wedding was celebrated without delay , and succeeding years diminished neither the virtues , beauty , nor the mutual affection of King Rainbow and his Queen , Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
18 THE THREE BROTHERS -LRB- 17 -RRB- -LRB- 17 -RRB- From the Polish .
19 Kletke .
20 There was once upon a time a witch , who in the shape of a hawk used every night to break the windows of a certain village church .
21 In the same village there lived three brothers , who were all determined to kill the mischievous XXXXX .	hawk		birth|carriages|crystal|hawk|language|lovers|story|tale|violins|witch

1 Papa , ' she said , ` it is not artificial , it is REAL ! '
2 ` Ugh ! '
3 said all the ladies-in-waiting , ` it is real ! '
4 ` Let us see first what is in the other casket before we begin to be angry , ' thought the Emperor , and there came out the nightingale .
5 It sang so beautifully that one could scarcely utter a cross word against it .
6 ` Superbe !
7 charmant ! '
8 said the ladies-in-waiting , for they all chattered French , each one worse than the other .
9 ` How much the bird reminds me of the musical snuff-box of the late Empress ! '
10 said an old courtier .
11 ` Ah , yes , it is the same tone , the same execution ! '
12 ` Yes , ' said the Emperor ; and then he wept like a little child . '
13 I hope that this , at least , is not real ? '
14 asked the Princess .
15 ` Yes , it is a real bird , ' said those who had brought it .
16 ` Then let the bird fly away , ' said the Princess ; and she would not on any account allow the Prince to come .
17 ` But he was nothing daunted .
18 He painted his face brown and black , drew his cap well over his face , and knocked at the door .
19 ` Good-day , Emperor , ' he said .
20 ` Can I get a place here as servant in the castle ? '
21 ` Yes , ' said the Emperor , ` but there are so many who ask for a XXXXX that I do n't know whether there will be one for you ; but , still , I will think of you .	place		Papa|account|castle|child|door|face|nightingale|place|servant|tone

1 It means much the same thing , ' said the Duchess , digging her sharp little chin into Alice 's shoulder as she added , ` and the moral of THAT is -- `` Take care of the sense , and the sounds will take care of themselves . '' '
2 ` How fond she is of finding morals in things ! '
3 Alice thought to herself . '
4 I dare say you 're wondering why I do n't put my arm round your waist , ' the Duchess said after a pause : ` the reason is , that I 'm doubtful about the temper of your flamingo .
5 Shall I try the experiment ? '
6 ` HE might bite , ' Alice cautiously replied , not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried .
7 ` Very true , ' said the Duchess : ` flamingoes and mustard both bite .
8 And the moral of that is -- `` Birds of a feather flock together . '' '
9 ` Only mustard is n't a bird , ' Alice remarked .
10 ` Right , as usual , ' said the Duchess : ` what a clear way you have of putting things ! '
11 ` It 's a mineral , I THINK , ' said Alice .
12 ` Of course it is , ' said the Duchess , who seemed ready to agree to everything that Alice said ; ` there 's a large mustard-mine near here .
13 And the moral of that is -- `` The more there is of mine , the less there is of yours . '' '
14 ` Oh , I know ! '
15 exclaimed Alice , who had not attended to this last remark , ` it 's a vegetable .
16 It does n't look like one , but it is . ' '
17 I quite agree with you , ' said the Duchess ; ` and the moral of that is -- `` Be what you would seem to be '' -- or if you 'd like it put more simply -- `` Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise . '' ' '
18 I think I should understand that better , ' Alice said very politely , ` if I had it written down : but I ca n't quite follow it as you say it . '
19 ` That 's nothing to what I could say if I chose , ' the Duchess replied , in a pleased tone .
20 ` Pray do n't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that , ' said Alice .
21 ` Oh , do n't talk about XXXXX ! '	trouble		bite|chin|course|experiment|mine|mineral|remark|shoulder|things|trouble

1 The King could not hide his amazement , but at the same time his wrath increased , and he was more ready than ever to believe the two brothers , who kept on repeating that Ferko was nothing more nor less than a wicked magician .
2 Only the beautiful Princess rejoiced over Ferko 's success , and looked on him with friendly glances , which the youth returned .
3 The more the cruel King gazed on the wonder before him , the more angry he became , for he could not , in the face of his promise , put the stranger to death .
4 He turned once more to the two brothers and said , ` His diabolical magic has helped him again , but now what third task shall we set him to do ?
5 No matter how impossible it is , he must do it or die . '
6 The eldest answered quickly , ` Let him drive all the wolves of the kingdom on to this hill before to-morrow night .
7 If he does this he may go free ; if not he shall be hung as you have said . '
8 At these words the Princess burst into tears , and when the King saw this he ordered her to be shut up in a high tower and carefully guarded till the dangerous magician should either have left the kingdom or been hung on the nearest tree .
9 Ferko wandered out into the fields again , and sat down on the stump of a tree wondering what he should do next .
10 Suddenly a big wolf ran up to him , and standing still said , ` I 'm very glad to see you again , my kind benefactor .
11 What are you thinking about all alone by yourself ?
12 If I can help you in any way only say the word , for I would like to give you a proof of my gratitude . '
13 Ferko at once recognised the wolf whose broken leg he had healed , and told him what he had to do the following day if he wished to escape with his life .
14 ` But how in the world , ' he added , ` am I to collect all the wolves of the kingdom on to that hill over there ? '
15 ` If that 's all you want done , ' answered the wolf , ` you need n't worry yourself .
16 I 'll undertake the task , and you 'll hear from me again before sunset to-morrow .
17 Keep your spirits up . '
18 And with these words he trotted quickly away .
19 Then the youth rejoiced greatly , for now he felt that his life was safe ; but he grew very sad when he thought of the beautiful Princess , and that he would never see her again if he left the country .
20 He lay down once more on the grass and soon fell fast asleep .
21 All the next XXXXX he spent wandering about the fields , and toward evening the wolf came running to him in a great hurry and said , ' I have collected together all the wolves in the kingdom , and they are waiting for you in the wood .	day		day|fields|kingdom|spirits|stump|task|tree|wolf|wolves|wrath

1 He will die in the winter rains .
2 He will scorch in the sun .
3 What harm can a naked frog do us ?
4 Let him run with the Pack .
5 Where is the bull , Bagheera ?
6 Let him be accepted . ''
7 And then came Akela 's deep bay , crying : `` Look well -- look well , O Wolves ! ''
8 Mowgli was still deeply interested in the pebbles , and he did not notice when the wolves came and looked at him one by one .
9 At last they all went down the hill for the dead bull , and only Akela , Bagheera , Baloo , and Mowgli 's own wolves were left .
10 Shere Khan roared still in the night , for he was very angry that Mowgli had not been handed over to him .
11 `` Ay , roar well , '' said Bagheera , under his whiskers , `` for the time will come when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune , or I know nothing of man . ''
12 `` It was well done , '' said Akela .
13 `` Men and their cubs are very wise .
14 He may be a help in time . ''
15 `` Truly , a help in time of need ; for none can hope to lead the Pack forever , '' said Bagheera .
16 Akela said nothing .
17 He was thinking of the time that comes to every leader of every pack when his strength goes from him and he gets feebler and feebler , till at last he is killed by the wolves and a new leader comes up -- to be killed in his turn .
18 `` Take him away , '' he said to Father Wolf , `` and train him as befits one of the Free People . ''
19 And that is how Mowgli was entered into the Seeonee Wolf Pack for the price of a bull and on Baloo 's good word .
20 Now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole years , and only guess at all the wonderful life that Mowgli led among the wolves , because if it were written out it would fill ever so many books .
21 He grew up with the cubs , though they , of course , were grown XXXXX almost before he was a child .	wolves		books|bull|cubs|eleven|guess|price|time|tune|turn|wolves

1 `` You were invited , were n't you ? ''
2 Aunt Beatrice nodded .
3 The hole she was darning in the knee of Willie Hayden 's stocking must be done very carefully .
4 Mrs. George Hayden was particular about such matters .
5 Perhaps this was why Aunt Beatrice did not speak .
6 `` Why did n't you go ? ''
7 asked Margaret absently , wondering why there had been no letter for her that morning -- and this was the third day too !
8 Could Gilbert be ill ?
9 Or was he flirting with some other girl and forgetting her ?
10 Margaret swallowed a big lump in her throat , and resolved that she would go home next week -- no , she would n't , either -- if he was as hateful and fickle as that -- what was Aunt Beatrice saying ?
11 `` Well , I 'm -- I 'm not used to going to parties now , my dear .
12 And the truth is I have no dress fit to wear .
13 At least Bella said so , because the party was to be a very fashionable affair .
14 She said my old grey silk would n't do at all .
15 Of course she knows .
16 She had to have a new dress for it , and , we could n't both have that .
17 George could n't afford it these hard times .
18 And , as Bella said , it would be very foolish of me to get an expensive dress that would be no use to me afterward .
19 But it does n't matter .
20 And , of course , somebody had to stay with the children . ''
21 `` Of XXXXX , '' assented Margaret dreamily .	course		Aunt|affair|children|course|lump|party|silk|throat|times|truth

1 The King in his anguish of mind consented , and the old woman led him to her little house where her daughter was sitting by the fire .
2 She received the King as if she were expecting him , and he saw that she was certainly very beautiful ; but she did not please him , and he could not look at her without a secret feeling of horror .
3 As soon as he had lifted the maiden on to his horse the old woman showed him the way , and the King reached his palace , where the wedding was celebrated .
4 The King had already been married once , and had by his first wife seven children , six boys and one girl , whom he loved more than anything in the world .
5 And now , because he was afraid that their stepmother might not treat them well and might do them harm , he put them in a lonely castle that stood in the middle of a wood .
6 It lay so hidden , and the way to it was so hard to find , that he himself could not have found it out had not a wise-woman given him a reel of thread which possessed a marvellous property : when he threw it before him it unwound itself and showed him the way .
7 But the King went so often to his dear children that the Queen was offended at his absence .
8 She grew curious , and wanted to know what he had to do quite alone in the wood .
9 She gave his servants a great deal of money , and they betrayed the secret to her , and also told her of the reel which alone could point out the way .
10 She had no rest now till she had found out where the King guarded the reel , and then she made some little white shirts , and , as she had learnt from her witch-mother , sewed an enchantment in each of them .
11 And when the King had ridden off she took the little shirts and went into the wood , and the reel showed her the way .
12 The children , who saw someone coming in the distance , thought it was their dear father coming to them , and sprang to meet him very joyfully .
13 Then she threw over each one a little shirt , which when it had touched their bodies changed them into swans , and they flew away over the forest .
14 The Queen went home quite satisfied , and thought she had got rid of her step-children ; but the girl had not run to meet her with her brothers , and she knew nothing of her .
15 The next day the King came to visit his children , but he found no one but the girl .
16 ` Where are your brothers ? '
17 asked the King .
18 ` Alas !
19 dear father , ' she answered , ` they have gone away and left me all alone . '
20 And she told him that looking out of her little window she had seen her brothers flying over the wood in the shape of swans , and she showed him the feathers which they had let fall in the yard , and which she had collected .
21 The King mourned , but he did not think that the Queen had done the wicked deed , and as he was afraid the XXXXX would also be taken from him , he wanted to take her with him .	maiden		anything|bodies|distance|enchantment|father|maiden|palace|shirt|window|wood

1 There was a general clapping of hands at this : it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day .
2 ` That PROVES his guilt , ' said the Queen .
3 ` It proves nothing of the sort ! '
4 said Alice .
5 ` Why , you do n't even know what they 're about ! '
6 ` Read them , ' said the King .
7 The White Rabbit put on his spectacles .
8 ` Where shall I begin , please your Majesty ? '
9 he asked .
10 ` Begin at the beginning , ' the King said gravely , ` and go on till you come to the end : then stop . '
11 These were the verses the White Rabbit read : -- ` They told me you had been to her , And mentioned me to him : She gave me a good character , But said I could not swim .
12 He sent them word I had not gone -LRB- We know it to be true -RRB- : If she should push the matter on , What would become of you ?
13 I gave her one , they gave him two , You gave us three or more ; They all returned from him to you , Though they were mine before .
14 If I or she should chance to be Involved in this affair , He trusts to you to set them free , Exactly as we were .
15 My notion was that you had been -LRB- Before she had this fit -RRB- An obstacle that came between Him , and ourselves , and it .
16 Do n't let him know she liked them best , For this must ever be A secret , kept from all the rest , Between yourself and me . '
17 ` That 's the most important piece of evidence we 've heard yet , ' said the King , rubbing his hands ; ` so now let the jury -- ' ` If any one of them can explain it , ' said Alice , -LRB- she had grown so large in the last few minutes that she was n't a bit afraid of interrupting him , -RRB- ` I 'll give him sixpence .
18 I do n't believe there 's an atom of meaning in it . '
19 The jury all wrote down on their slates , ` SHE does n't believe there 's an atom of meaning in it , ' but none of them attempted to explain the paper .
20 ` If there 's no meaning in it , ' said the King , ` that saves a world of trouble , you know , as we need n't try to find any .
21 And yet I do n't know , ' he went on , spreading out the XXXXX on his knee , and looking at them with one eye ; ' I seem to see some meaning in them , after all . ''	verses		affair|beginning|end|fit|guilt|jury|matter|meaning|secret|verses

1 Kletke .
2 Long time ago there lived a King who had three sons ; the eldest was called Szabo , the second Warza , and the youngest Iwanich .
3 One beautiful spring morning the King was walking through his gardens with these three sons , gazing with admiration at the various fruit-trees , some of which were a mass of blossom , whilst others were bowed to the ground laden with rich fruit .
4 During their wanderings they came unperceived on a piece of waste land where three splendid trees grew .
5 The King looked on them for a moment , and then , shaking his head sadly , he passed on in silence .
6 The sons , who could not understand why he did this , asked him the reason of his dejection , and the King told them as follows : ` These three trees , which I can not see without sorrow , were planted by me on this spot when I was a youth of twenty .
7 A celebrated magician , who had given the seed to my father , promised him that they would grow into the three finest trees the world had ever seen .
8 My father did not live to see his words come true ; but on his death-bed he bade me transplant them here , and to look after them with the greatest care , which I accordingly did .
9 At last , after the lapse of five long years , I noticed some blossoms on the branches , and a few days later the most exquisite fruit my eyes had ever seen . '
10 I gave my head-gardener the strictest orders to watch the trees carefully , for the magician had warned my father that if one unripe fruit were plucked from the tree , all the rest would become rotten at once .
11 When it was quite ripe the fruit would become a golden yellow .
12 ` Every day I gazed on the lovely fruit , which became gradually more and more tempting-looking , and it was all I could do not to break the magician 's commands .
13 ` One night I dreamt that the fruit was perfectly ripe ; I ate some of it , and it was more delicious than anything I had ever tasted in real life .
14 As soon as I awoke I sent for the gardener and asked him if the fruit on the three trees had not ripened in the night to perfection .
15 ` But instead of replying , the gardener threw himself at my feet and swore that he was innocent .
16 He said that he had watched by the trees all night , but in spite of it , and as if by magic , the beautiful trees had been robbed of all their fruit .
17 ` Grieved as I was over the theft , I did not punish the gardener , of whose fidelity I was well assured , but I determined to pluck off all the fruit in the following year before it was ripe , as I had not much belief in the magician 's warning . '
18 I carried out my intention , and had all the fruit picked off the tree , but when I tasted one of the apples it was bitter and unpleasant , and the next morning the rest of the fruit had all rotted away .
19 ` After this I had the beautiful fruit of these trees carefully guarded by my most faithful servants ; but every year , on this very night , the fruit was plucked and stolen by an invisible hand , and next morning not a single apple remained on the trees .
20 For some time past I have given up even having the trees watched . '
21 When the King had finished his story , Szabo , his eldest son , said to him : ` Forgive me , XXXXX , if I say I think you are mistaken .	father		days|father|hand|life|magician|morning|orders|servants|spot|wanderings

1 `` Do n't you ever trip ? ''
2 said the troop-horse .
3 `` They say that when a mule trips you can split a hen 's ear , '' said Billy .
4 `` Now and again perhaps a badly packed saddle will upset a mule , but it 's very seldom .
5 I wish I could show you our business .
6 It 's beautiful .
7 Why , it took me three years to find out what the men were driving at .
8 The science of the thing is never to show up against the sky line , because , if you do , you may get fired at .
9 Remember that , young un .
10 Always keep hidden as much as possible , even if you have to go a mile out of your way .
11 I lead the battery when it comes to that sort of climbing . ''
12 `` Fired at without the chance of running into the people who are firing ! ''
13 said the troop-horse , thinking hard .
14 `` I could n't stand that .
15 I should want to charge -- with Dick . ''
16 `` Oh , no , you would n't .
17 You know that as soon as the guns are in position they 'll do all the charging .
18 That 's scientific and neat .
19 But knives -- pah ! ''
20 The baggage-camel had been bobbing his head to and fro for some time past , anxious to get a word in edgewise .
21 Then I heard him say , as he cleared his throat , nervously : `` I -- I -- I have fought a little , but not in that climbing way or that running XXXXX . ''	way		firing|guns|head|knives|mule|pah|saddle|thing|un|way

1 `` He threw me to and fro , but he could not shake me off .
2 He was dead before the big man blew him in two .
3 I did it !
4 Rikki-tikki-tck-tck !
5 Come then , Nagaina .
6 Come and fight with me .
7 You shall not be a widow long . ''
8 Nagaina saw that she had lost her chance of killing Teddy , and the egg lay between Rikki-tikki 's paws .
9 `` Give me the egg , Rikki-tikki .
10 Give me the last of my eggs , and I will go away and never come back , '' she said , lowering her hood .
11 `` Yes , you will go away , and you will never come back .
12 For you will go to the rubbish heap with Nag .
13 Fight , widow !
14 The big man has gone for his gun !
15 Fight ! ''
16 Rikki-tikki was bounding all round Nagaina , keeping just out of reach of her stroke , his little eyes like hot coals .
17 Nagaina gathered herself together and flung out at him .
18 Rikki-tikki jumped up and backward .
19 Again and again and again she struck , and each time her head came with a whack on the matting of the veranda and she gathered herself together like a watch spring .
20 Then Rikki-tikki danced in a circle to get behind her , and Nagaina spun round to keep her head to his head , so that the rustle of her tail on the matting sounded like dry leaves blown along by the wind .
21 He had forgotten the XXXXX .	egg		egg|eggs|eyes|gun|hood|leaves|matting|round|tail|veranda

1 All things made he -- Shiva the Preserver .
2 Mahadeo !
3 Mahadeo !
4 He made all -- Thorn for the camel , fodder for the kine , And mother 's heart for sleepy head , O little son of mine !
5 Little Toomai came in with a joyous tunk-a-tunk at the end of each verse , till he felt sleepy and stretched himself on the fodder at Kala Nag 's side .
6 At last the elephants began to lie down one after another as is their custom , till only Kala Nag at the right of the line was left standing up ; and he rocked slowly from side to side , his ears put forward to listen to the night wind as it blew very slowly across the hills .
7 The air was full of all the night noises that , taken together , make one big silence -- the click of one bamboo stem against the other , the rustle of something alive in the undergrowth , the scratch and squawk of a half-waked bird -LRB- birds are awake in the night much more often than we imagine -RRB- , and the fall of water ever so far away .
8 Little Toomai slept for some time , and when he waked it was brilliant moonlight , and Kala Nag was still standing up with his ears cocked .
9 Little Toomai turned , rustling in the fodder , and watched the curve of his big back against half the stars in heaven , and while he watched he heard , so far away that it sounded no more than a pinhole of noise pricked through the stillness , the `` hoot-toot '' of a wild elephant .
10 All the elephants in the lines jumped up as if they had been shot , and their grunts at last waked the sleeping mahouts , and they came out and drove in the picket pegs with big mallets , and tightened this rope and knotted that till all was quiet .
11 One new elephant had nearly grubbed up his picket , and Big Toomai took off Kala Nag 's leg chain and shackled that elephant fore-foot to hind-foot , but slipped a loop of grass string round Kala Nag 's leg , and told him to remember that he was tied fast .
12 He knew that he and his father and his grandfather had done the very same thing hundreds of times before .
13 Kala Nag did not answer to the order by gurgling , as he usually did .
14 He stood still , looking out across the moonlight , his head a little raised and his ears spread like fans , up to the great folds of the Garo hills .
15 `` Tend to him if he grows restless in the night , '' said Big Toomai to Little Toomai , and he went into the hut and slept .
16 Little Toomai was just going to sleep , too , when he heard the coir string snap with a little `` tang , '' and Kala Nag rolled out of his pickets as slowly and as silently as a cloud rolls out of the mouth of a valley .
17 Little Toomai pattered after him , barefooted , down the road in the moonlight , calling under his breath , `` Kala Nag !
18 Kala Nag !
19 Take me with you , O Kala Nag ! ''
20 The elephant turned , without a sound , took three strides back to the boy in the moonlight , put down his trunk , swung him up to his neck , and almost before Little Toomai had settled his knees , slipped into the forest .
21 There was one blast of furious trumpeting from the XXXXX , and then the silence shut down on everything , and Kala Nag began to move .	lines		air|camel|father|grandfather|head|lines|order|road|strides|things

1 The Simpleton thanked the manikin very kindly , bade him farewell , and went into the road .
2 When he got to the first tree he stopped in front of it , did everything just as he had been told , and , kneeling on the ground with his face to the earth , fell asleep .
3 After a little time he was aroused ; he awoke and , rubbing his eyes , saw a ready-made ship at his side , and at once got into it .
4 And the ship rose and rose , and in another minute was flying through the air , when the Simpleton , who was on the look out , cast his eyes down to the earth and saw a man beneath him on the road , who was kneeling with his ear upon the damp ground .
5 ` Hallo ! '
6 he called out , ` what are you doing down there ? ' '
7 I am listening to what is going on in the world , ' replied the man .
8 ` Come with me in my ship , ' said the Simpleton .
9 So the man was only too glad , and got in beside him ; and the ship flew , and flew , and flew through the air , till again from his outlook the Simpleton saw a man on the road below , who was hopping on one leg , while his other leg was tied up behind his ear .
10 So he hailed him , calling out : ` Hallo !
11 what are you doing , hopping on one leg ? ' '
12 I ca n't help it , ' replied the man . '
13 I walk so fast that unless I tied up one leg I should be at the end of the earth in a bound . '
14 ` Come with us on my ship , ' he answered ; and the man made no objections , but joined them ; and the ship flew on , and on , and on , till suddenly the Simpleton , looking down on the road below , beheld a man aiming with a gun into the distance .
15 ` Hallo ! '
16 he shouted to him , ` what are you aiming at ?
17 As far as eye can see , there is no bird in sight . '
18 ` What would be the good of my taking a near shot ? '
19 replied the man ; ' I can hit beast or bird at a hundred miles ' distance .
20 That is the kind of shot I enjoy . '
21 ` Come into the XXXXX with us , ' answered the Simpleton ; and the man was only too glad to join them , and he got in ; and the ship flew on , farther and farther , till again the Simpleton from his outlook saw a man on the road below , carrying on his back a basket full of bread .	ship		beast|bird|ear|end|farewell|good|manikin|miles|ship|world

1 `` He has been lame in one foot from his birth .
2 That is why he has only killed cattle .
3 Now the villagers of the Waingunga are angry with him , and he has come here to make our villagers angry .
4 They will scour the jungle for him when he is far away , and we and our children must run when the grass is set alight .
5 Indeed , we are very grateful to Shere Khan ! ''
6 `` Shall I tell him of your gratitude ? ''
7 said Tabaqui .
8 `` Out ! ''
9 snapped Father Wolf .
10 `` Out and hunt with thy master .
11 Thou hast done harm enough for one night . ''
12 `` I go , '' said Tabaqui quietly .
13 `` Ye can hear Shere Khan below in the thickets .
14 I might have saved myself the message . ''
15 Father Wolf listened , and below in the valley that ran down to a little river he heard the dry , angry , snarly , singsong whine of a tiger who has caught nothing and does not care if all the jungle knows it .
16 `` The fool ! ''
17 said Father Wolf .
18 `` To begin a night 's work with that noise !
19 Does he think that our buck are like his fat Waingunga bullocks ? ''
20 `` H'sh .
21 It is neither bullock nor XXXXX he hunts to-night , '' said Mother Wolf .	buck		buck|gratitude|harm|message|noise|thickets|tiger|valley|villagers|whine

1 `` Come back , or we will stone thee . ''
2 Mowgli laughed a little short ugly laugh , for a stone had hit him in the mouth .
3 `` Run back , Messua .
4 This is one of the foolish tales they tell under the big tree at dusk .
5 I have at least paid for thy son 's life .
6 Farewell ; and run quickly , for I shall send the herd in more swiftly than their brickbats .
7 I am no wizard , Messua .
8 Farewell ! ''
9 `` Now , once more , Akela , '' he cried .
10 `` Bring the herd in . ''
11 The buffaloes were anxious enough to get to the village .
12 They hardly needed Akela 's yell , but charged through the gate like a whirlwind , scattering the crowd right and left .
13 `` Keep count ! ''
14 shouted Mowgli scornfully .
15 `` It may be that I have stolen one of them .
16 Keep count , for I will do your herding no more .
17 Fare you well , children of men , and thank Messua that I do not come in with my wolves and hunt you up and down your street . ''
18 He turned on his heel and walked away with the Lone Wolf , and as he looked up at the stars he felt happy .
19 `` No more sleeping in traps for me , Akela .
20 Let us get Shere Khan 's skin and go away .
21 No , we will not hurt the XXXXX , for Messua was kind to me . ''	village		Run|buffaloes|crowd|mouth|skin|son|stone|traps|village|wizard

1 He ai n't a Hopedale boy . ''
2 `` He must be carried right in , '' exclaimed Miss Salome in distress .
3 `` Why , he may die there .
4 He must be very ill . ''
5 `` Looks more to me as if he had fainted from sheer starvation , '' returned Clemantiny brusquely as she picked him up in her lean , muscular arms .
6 `` Why , he 's skin and bone .
7 He ai n't hardly heavier than a baby .
8 Well , this is a mysterious piece of work .
9 Where 'll I put him ? ''
10 `` Lay him on the sofa , '' said Miss Salome as soon as she had recovered from the horror into which Clemantiny 's starvation dictum had thrown her .
11 A child starving to death on her doorstep !
12 `` What do you do for people in a faint , Clemantiny ? ''
13 `` Wet their face -- and hist up their feet -- and loosen their collar , '' said Clemantiny in a succession of jerks , doing each thing as she mentioned it .
14 `` And hold ammonia to their nose .
15 Run for the ammonia , Salome .
16 Look , will you ?
17 Skin and bone ! ''
18 But Miss Salome had gone for the ammonia .
19 There was a look on the boy 's thin , pallid face that tugged painfully at her heart-strings .
20 When Chester came back to consciousness with the pungency of the ammonia reeking through his head , he found himself lying on very soft pillows in a very big white sunny kitchen , where everything was scoured to a brightness that dazzled you .
21 Bending over him was a tall , gaunt woman with a thin , determined XXXXX and snapping black eyes , and , standing beside her with a steaming bowl in her hand , was the nice rosy lady who had given him the taffy on the boat !	face		Miss|Run|Skin|Wet|brightness|everything|face|nose|people|pillows

1 Who Stole the Tarts ?
2 The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived , with a great crowd assembled about them -- all sorts of little birds and beasts , as well as the whole pack of cards : the Knave was standing before them , in chains , with a soldier on each side to guard him ; and near the King was the White Rabbit , with a trumpet in one hand , and a scroll of parchment in the other .
3 In the very middle of the court was a table , with a large dish of tarts upon it : they looked so good , that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them -- ' I wish they 'd get the trial done , ' she thought , ` and hand round the refreshments ! '
4 But there seemed to be no chance of this , so she began looking at everything about her , to pass away the time .
5 Alice had never been in a court of justice before , but she had read about them in books , and she was quite pleased to find that she knew the name of nearly everything there .
6 ` That 's the judge , ' she said to herself , ` because of his great wig . '
7 The judge , by the way , was the King ; and as he wore his crown over the wig , -LRB- look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it , -RRB- he did not look at all comfortable , and it was certainly not becoming .
8 ` And that 's the jury-box , ' thought Alice , ` and those twelve creatures , ' -LRB- she was obliged to say ` creatures , ' you see , because some of them were animals , and some were birds , -RRB- ' I suppose they are the jurors . '
9 She said this last word two or three times over to herself , being rather proud of it : for she thought , and rightly too , that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all .
10 However , ` jury-men ' would have done just as well .
11 The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates .
12 ` What are they doing ? '
13 Alice whispered to the Gryphon .
14 ` They ca n't have anything to put down yet , before the trial 's begun . '
15 ` They 're putting down their names , ' the Gryphon whispered in reply , ` for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial . '
16 ` Stupid things ! '
17 Alice began in a loud , indignant voice , but she stopped hastily , for the White Rabbit cried out , ` Silence in the court ! '
18 and the King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round , to make out who was talking .
19 Alice could see , as well as if she were looking over their shoulders , that all the jurors were writing down ` stupid things ! '
20 on their slates , and she could even make out that one of them did n't know how to spell ` stupid , ' and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him . '
21 A nice muddle their slates 'll be in before the XXXXX 's over ! '	trial		birds|chance|crowd|end|look|table|times|trial|voice|word

1 I was so glad .
2 And the children 's hearts were set on it .
3 It seems too bad that we are not to get there .
4 I have to be back at work the morning after Christmas . ''
5 The khaki boy came up again and shared the candy .
6 He told amusing stories of campaigning in South Africa .
7 The minister came too , and listened , and even the sealskin lady turned her head over her shoulder .
8 By and by the children fell asleep , one on Aunt Cyrilla 's lap and one on Lucy Rose 's , and two on the seat .
9 Aunt Cyrilla and the pale girl helped the mother make up beds for them .
10 The minister gave his overcoat and the sealskin lady came forward with a shawl .
11 `` This will do for the baby , '' she said .
12 `` We must get up some Santa Claus for these youngsters , '' said the khaki boy .
13 `` Let 's hang their stockings on the wall and fill 'em up as best we can .
14 I 've nothing about me but some hard cash and a jack-knife .
15 I 'll give each of 'em a quarter and the boy can have the knife . ''
16 `` I 've nothing but money either , '' said the sealskin lady regretfully .
17 Aunt Cyrilla glanced at the little mother .
18 She had fallen asleep with her head against the seat-back .
19 `` I 've got a basket over there , '' said Aunt Cyrilla firmly , `` and I 've some presents in it that I was taking to my nephew 's children .
20 I 'm going to give 'em to these .
21 As for the money , I think the XXXXX is the one for it to go to .	mother		Aunt|baby|children|girl|knife|money|mother|shawl|shoulder|work

1 ` Is it possible ! '
2 said the First Lord . '
3 I should never have thought it !
4 How ordinary she looks !
5 She must surely have lost her feathers because she sees so many distinguished men round her ! '
6 ` Little Nightingale , ' called out the little kitchenmaid , ` our Gracious Emperor wants you to sing before him ! '
7 ` With the greatest of pleasure ! '
8 said the Nightingale ; and she sang so gloriously that it was a pleasure to listen .
9 ` It sounds like glass bells ! '
10 said the First Lord .
11 ` And look how her little throat works !
12 It is wonderful that we have never heard her before !
13 She will be a great success at Court . '
14 ` Shall I sing once more for the Emperor ? '
15 asked the Nightingale , thinking that the Emperor was there .
16 ` My esteemed little Nightingale , ' said the First Lord , ' I have the great pleasure to invite you to Court this evening , where His Gracious Imperial Highness will be enchanted with your charming song ! '
17 ` It sounds best in the green wood , ' said the Nightingale ; but still , she came gladly when she heard that the Emperor wished it .
18 At the Palace everything was splendidly prepared .
19 The porcelain walls and floors glittered in the light of many thousand gold lamps ; the most gorgeous flowers which tinkled out well were placed in the corridors .
20 There was such a hurrying and draught that all the bells jingled so much that one could not hear oneself speak .
21 In the centre of the great hall where the Emperor sat was a golden perch , on which the XXXXX sat .	Nightingale		Court|Gracious|Nightingale|draught|feathers|men|pleasure|success|throat|wood

1 Then Jimmy does hurry .
2 But just now he did n't see any fat beetles , although he was looking for them .
3 So he just ambled along as if he had all the time in the world , as indeed he had .
4 He was feeling very good-natured , was Jimmy Skunk .
5 And why should n't he ?
6 There was everything to make him feel good-natured .
7 Summer had arrived to stay .
8 On every side he heard glad voices .
9 Bumble the Bee was humming a song .
10 Best of all , Jimmy had found three beetles that very morning , and he knew that there were more if he could find them .
11 So why should n't he feel good ?
12 Jimmy had laughed at Peter Rabbit for being so anxious for Summer to arrive , but he was just as glad as Peter that she had come , although he would n't have said so for the world .
13 His sharp little eyes twinkled as he ambled along , and there was n't much that they missed .
14 As he walked he talked , quite to himself of course , because there was nobody near to hear , and this is what he was saying : `` Beetle , beetle , smooth and smug , You are nothing but a bug .
15 Bugs were made for Skunks to eat , So come out from your retreat .
16 `` Hello !
17 There 's a nice big piece of bark over there that looks as if it ought to have a dozen fat beetles under it .
18 It 's great fun to pull over pieces of bark and see fat beetles run all ways at once .
19 I 'll just have to see what is under that piece . ''
20 Jimmy tiptoed softly over to the big piece of bark , and then as he made ready to turn it over , he began again that foolish little verse .
21 `` Beetle , beetle , smooth and smug , You are XXXXX but a bug . ''	nothing		Best|beetles|bug|course|everything|eyes|fun|nobody|nothing|world

1 `` Never , Rob .
2 It seems to me now like a beautiful garment put on for a holiday and worn easily and pleasantly for a time .
3 But I 've put it off now , and put on workaday clothes again .
4 It is only a week since I left Dalveigh , but it seems long ago .
5 Listen to the wind , Rob !
6 It is singing of the good days to be for you and me . ''
7 He bent over and kissed her .
8 `` My own dear lass ! ''
9 he said softly .
10 The Martyrdom of Estella Estella was waiting under the poplars at the gate for Spencer Morgan .
11 She was engaged to him , and he always came to see her on Saturday and Wednesday evenings .
12 It was after sunset , and the air was mellow and warm-hued .
13 The willow trees along the walk and the tall birches in the background stood out darkly distinct against the lemon-tinted sky .
14 The breath of mint floated out from the garden , and the dew was falling heavily .
15 Estella leaned against the gate , listening for the sound of wheels and dreamily watching the light shining out from the window of Vivienne LeMar 's room .
16 The blind was up and she could see Miss LeMar writing at her table .
17 Her profile was clear and distinct against the lamplight .
18 Estella reflected without the least envy that Miss LeMar was very beautiful .
19 She had never seen anyone who was really beautiful before -- beautiful with the loveliness of the heroines in the novels she sometimes read or the pictures she had seen .
20 Estella Bowes was not pretty .
21 She was a nice-looking girl , with clear eyes , rosy cheeks , and a pervading XXXXX of the content and happiness her life had always known .	air		Miss|air|envy|gate|novels|pictures|profile|singing|sunset|wind

1 And again the little drake answered for his sisters : ` We can not sleep , we wake and weep , Sharp is the knife , to take our life ; The fire is hot , now boils the pot , And so we wake , and lie and quake . '
2 ` Just the same answer , ' muttered the witch ; ' I think I 'll go in and see . '
3 So she opened the door gently , and seeing the two little ducklings sound asleep , she there and then killed them .
4 The next morning the White Duck wandered round the pond in a distracted manner , looking for her little ones ; she called and she searched , but could find no trace of them .
5 And in her heart she had a foreboding that evil had befallen them , and she fluttered up out of the water and flew to the palace .
6 And there , laid out on the marble floor of the court , dead and stone cold , were her three children .
7 The White Duck threw herself upon them , and , covering up their little bodies with her wings , she cried : ` Quack , quack -- my little loves !
8 Quack , quack -- my turtle-doves !
9 I brought you up with grief and pain , And now before my eyes you 're slain .
10 I gave you always of the best ; I kept you warm in my soft nest .
11 I loved and watched you day and night -- You were my joy , my one delight . '
12 The King heard the sad complaint of the White Duck , and called to the witch : ` Wife , what a wonder is this ?
13 Listen to that White Duck . '
14 But the witch answered , ` My dear husband , what do you mean ?
15 There is nothing wonderful in a duck 's quacking .
16 Here , servants !
17 Chase that duck out of the courtyard . '
18 But though the servants chased and chevied , they could not get rid of the duck ; for she circled round and round , and always came back to the spot where her children lay , crying : ` Quack , quack -- my little loves !
19 Quack , quack -- my turtle-doves !
20 The wicked witch your lives did take -- The wicked witch , the cunning snake .
21 First she stole my King away , Then my XXXXX did she slay .	children		children|delight|foreboding|joy|lives|morning|pot|servants|snake|water

1 Upon which she said : ` Dear master , Schurka and I are going off to a distant kingdom at the utmost ends of the earth to fetch you back your magic ring .
2 You must be careful that the rolls last till our return . '
3 And Waska took leave of her beloved master , and set off with Schurka on their journey .
4 On and on they travelled , looking always to right and left for traces of the Princess , following up every track , making inquiries of every cat and dog they met , listening to the talk of every wayfarer they passed ; and at last they heard that the kingdom at the utmost ends of the earth where the twelve youths had borne the Princess was not very far off .
5 And at last one day they reached that distant kingdom , and , going at once to the palace , they began to make friends with all the dogs and cats in the place , and to question them about the Princess and the magic ring ; but no one could tell them much about either .
6 Now one day it chanced that Waska had gone down to the palace cellar to hunt for mice and rats , and seeing an especially fat , well-fed mouse , she pounced upon it , buried her claws in its soft fur , and was just going to gobble it up , when she was stopped by the pleading tones of the little creature , saying , ` If you will only spare my life I may be of great service to you .
7 I will do everything in my power for you ; for I am the King of the Mice , and if I perish the whole race will die out . '
8 ` So be it , ' said Waska . '
9 I will spare your life ; but in return you must do something for me .
10 In this castle there lives a Princess , the wicked wife of my dear master .
11 She has stolen away his magic ring .
12 You must get it away from her at whatever cost ; do you hear ?
13 Till you have done this I wo n't take my claws out of your fur . '
14 ` Good ! '
15 replied the mouse ; ' I will do what you ask . '
16 And , so saying , he summoned all the mice in his kingdom together .
17 A countless number of mice , small and big , brown and grey , assembled , and formed a circle round their king , who was a prisoner under Waska 's claws .
18 Turning to them he said : ` Dear and faithful subjects , who ever among you will steal the magic ring from the strange Princess will release me from a cruel death ; and I shall honour him above all the other mice in the kingdom . '
19 Instantly a tiny mouse stepped forward and said : ' I often creep about the Princess 's bedroom at night , and I have noticed that she has a ring which she treasures as the apple of her eye .
20 All day she wears it on her finger , and at night she keeps it in her mouth .
21 I will undertake , sire , to steal away the XXXXX for you . '	ring		apple|death|dogs|master|one|palace|race|ring|talk|wife

1 ` That is quite a meal ! '
2 said the Princess ; ` but where shall we get the soup from ? '
3 ` I 've got that in my pocket ! '
4 said Blockhead-Hans . '
5 I have so much that I can quite well throw some away ! '
6 and he poured some mud out of his pocket . '
7 I like you ! '
8 said the Princess .
9 ` You can answer , and you can speak , and I will marry you ; but do you know that every word which we are saying and have said has been taken down and will be in the paper to-morrow ?
10 By each window do you see there are standing three reporters and an old editor , and this old editor is the worst , for he does n't understand anything ! '
11 but she only said this to tease Blockhead-Hans .
12 And the reporters giggled , and each dropped a blot of ink on the floor .
13 ` Ah !
14 are those the great people ? '
15 said Blockhead-Hans .
16 ` Then I will give the editor the best ! '
17 So saying , he turned his pockets inside out , and threw the mud right in his face .
18 ` That was neatly done ! '
19 said the Princess . '
20 I could n't have done it ; but I will soon learn how to ! '
21 Blockhead-Hans became King , got a wife and a crown , and sat on the throne ; and this we have still damp from the newspaper of the XXXXX and the reporters -- and they are not to be believed for a moment .	editor		anything|editor|face|meal|mud|people|pocket|pockets|window|word

1 Long years ago the tree had given up blooming , nor could all the pruning and care given it coax a single blossom from it .
2 Miss Corona , tinctured with the superstition apt to wait on a lonely womanhood , believed in her heart that the rosebush had a secret sympathy with the fortunes of the Gordon women .
3 She , the last of them on the old homestead , would never need the bride roses .
4 Wherefore , then , should the old tree bloom ?
5 And now , after all these years , it had flung all its long-hoarded sweetness into blossom again .
6 Miss Corona thrilled at the thought .
7 The rosebush had bloomed again for a Gordon bride , but Miss Corona was sure there was another meaning in it too ; she believed it foretokened some change in her own life , some rejuvenescence of love and beauty like to that of the ancient rose-tree .
8 She bent over its foam of loveliness almost reverently .
9 `` They have bloomed for Juliet 's wedding , '' she murmured .
10 `` A Gordon bride must wear the bride roses , indeed she must .
11 And this -- why , it is almost a miracle . ''
12 She ran , light-footedly as a girl , to the house for scissors and a basket .
13 She would send Juliet Gordon the bride roses .
14 Her cheeks were pink from excitement as she snipped them off .
15 How lovely they were !
16 How very large and fragrant !
17 It was as if all the grace and perfume and beauty and glory of those twenty lost summers were found here at once in them .
18 When Miss Corona had them ready , she went to the door and called , `` Charlotte !
19 Charlotte ! ''
20 Now Charlotta , having atoned to her conscience for the destruction of the green and yellow bowl by faithfully weeding the garden , a task which she hated above all else , was singing a hymn among the sweet peas , and her red braids were over her shoulders .
21 This ought to have warned Miss Corona , but Miss Corona was thinking of other things , and kept on calling patiently , while Charlotta weeded away for dear XXXXX , and seemed smitten with treble deafness .	life		beauty|blossom|bowl|glory|heart|homestead|life|meaning|superstition|womanhood

1 But the youngest brother determined to explore the abyss , and letting himself down by the rope he soon reached the bottom .
2 Here he found a lovely meadow full of green trees and exquisite flowers .
3 In the middle of the meadow stood a huge stone castle , with an iron gate leading to it , which was wide open .
4 Everything in the castle seemed to be made of copper , and the only inhabitant he could discover was a lovely girl , who was combing her golden hair ; and he noticed that whenever one of her hairs fell on the ground it rang out like pure metal .
5 The youth looked at her more closely , and saw that her skin was smooth and fair , her blue eyes bright and sparkling , and her hair as golden as the sun .
6 He fell in love with her on the spot , and kneeling at her feet , he implored her to become his wife .
7 The lovely girl accepted his proposal gladly ; but at the same time she warned him that she could never come up to the world above till her mother , the old witch , was dead .
8 And she went on to tell him that the only way in which the old creature could be killed was with the sword that hung up in the castle ; but the sword was so heavy that no one could lift it .
9 Then the youth went into a room in the castle where everything was made of silver , and here he found another beautiful girl , the sister of his bride .
10 She was combing her silver hair , and every hair that fell on the ground rang out like pure metal .
11 The second girl handed him the sword , but though he tried with all his strength he could not lift it .
12 At last a third sister came to him and gave him a drop of something to drink , which she said would give him the needful strength .
13 He drank one drop , but still he could not lift the sword ; then he drank a second , and the sword began to move ; but only after he had drunk a third drop was he able to swing the sword over his head .
14 Then he hid himself in the castle and awaited the old witch 's arrival .
15 At last as it was beginning to grow dark she appeared .
16 She swooped down upon a big apple-tree , and after shaking some golden apples from it , she pounced down upon the earth .
17 As soon as her feet touched the ground she became transformed from a hawk into a woman .
18 This was the moment the youth was waiting for , and he swung his mighty sword in the air with all his strength and the witch 's head fell off , and her blood spurted up on the walls .
19 Without fear of any further danger , he packed up all the treasures of the castle into great chests , and gave his brothers a signal to pull them up out of the abyss .
20 First the treasures were attached to the rope and then the three lovely girls .
21 And now XXXXX was up above and only he himself remained below .	everything		arrival|creature|everything|hairs|one|proposal|sun|sword|time|treasures

1 It seems Father had had relations after all -- a brother and a sister in particular .
2 But when he was a young man he quarrelled with his brother , who did n't treat him very well -- but he 's been dead for years , so I wo n't say a word against him -- and had gone away from home .
3 He never went back , and he never even let them know he was living .
4 Father says that this was very wrong of him , and I suppose it was , since he says so ; but I do n't see how Father could do anything wrong .
5 Anyway , he had a sister Esther whom he loved very much ; but he felt bitter against her too , because he thought she took his brother 's part too much .
6 So , though a letter of hers , asking him to go back , did reach him , he never answered it , and he never heard anything more .
7 Years afterward he felt sorry and went back , but his brother was dead and his sister had gone away , and he could n't find out a single thing about her .
8 So much for that ; and now about the kite .
9 The letter Father had just received was from his sister , our Aunt Esther and the mother of Dick and Mimi .
10 She was living at a place hundreds of miles inland .
11 Her husband was dead and , as we found out later , although she did not say a word about it in the letter , she was very poor .
12 One day when Dick and Mimi were out in the woods looking for botany specimens they saw something funny in the top of a tree .
13 Dick climbed up and got it .
14 It was a big red kite with a patch on each side and names written on it .
15 They carried it home to their mother .
16 Dick has since told us that she turned as pale as the dead when she saw our names on it .
17 You see , Philippa was her mother 's name and Claude was her father 's .
18 And when she read the letter that was pasted over the hole in the kite she knew who we must be , for it was the very letter she had written to her brother so long ago .
19 So she sat right down and wrote again , and this was the letter Jake Wiggins brought to the Big Half Moon .
20 It was a beautiful letter .
21 I loved XXXXX Esther before I ever saw her , just from that letter .	Aunt		Aunt|father|home|husband|kite|man|name|part|relations|word

1 He bit the bread a second and third time , and each time a piece of gold fell out of his mouth ; but the bread remained untouched .
2 The Herd-boy was very much delighted over his stroke of good fortune , and , hiding the magic loaf in his bag , he hurried off to the nearest village to buy himself something to eat , and then returned to his sheep .
3 Now the Lord whose sheep the Herd-boy looked after had a very lovely daughter , who always smiled and nodded to the youth when she walked with her father in his fields .
4 For a long time the Herd-boy had made up his mind to prepare a surprise for this beautiful creature on her birthday .
5 So when the day approached he put on his invisible belt , took a sack of gold pieces with him , and slipping into her room in the middle of the night , he placed the bag of gold beside her bed and returned to his sheep .
6 The girl 's joy was great , and so was her parents ' next day when they found the sack full of gold pieces .
7 The Herd-boy was so pleased to think what pleasure he had given that the next night he placed another bag of gold beside the girl 's bed .
8 And this he continued to do for seven nights , and the girl and her parents made up their minds that it must be a good Fairy who brought the gold every night .
9 But one night they determined to watch , and see from their hiding place who the bringer of the sack of gold really was .
10 On the eighth night a fearful storm of wind and rain came on while the Herd-boy was on his way to bring the beautiful girl another bag of gold .
11 Then for the first time he noticed , just as he reached his master 's house , that he had forgotten the belt which made him invisible .
12 He did n't like the idea of going back to his hut in the wind and wet , so he just stepped as he was into the girl 's room , laid the sack of gold beside her , and was turning to leave the room , when his master confronted him and said , ` You young rogue , so you were going to steal the gold that a good Fairy brings every night , were you ? '
13 The Herd-boy was so taken aback by his words , that he stood trembling before him , and did not dare to explain his presence .
14 Then his master spoke .
15 ` As you have hitherto always behaved well in my service I will not send you to prison ; but leave your place instantly and never let me see your face again . '
16 So the Herd-boy went back to his hut , and taking his loaf and belt with him , he went to the nearest town .
17 There he bought himself some fine clothes , and a beautiful coach with four horses , hired two servants , and drove back to his master .
18 You may imagine how astonished he was to see his Herd-boy returning to him in this manner !
19 Then the youth told him of the piece of good luck that had befallen him , and asked him for the hand of his beautiful daughter .
20 This was readily granted , and the two lived in peace and happiness to the end of their lives .
21 THE INVISIBLE PRINCE Once upon a time there lived a XXXXX who had power over the earth , the sea , fire , and the air ; and this Fairy had four sons .	Fairy		Fairy|father|hut|master|mind|minds|pleasure|room|village|way

1 He went at once to his son Iwanich , and after embracing him tenderly and heaping praises on him , he asked him how he had succeeded in protecting the costly fruit from the power of the magician .
2 This question placed Iwanich in a dilemma .
3 But as he did not want the real story to be known , he said that about midnight a huge wasp had flown through the branches , and buzzed incessantly round him .
4 He had warded it off with his sword , and at dawn , when he was becoming quite worn out , the wasp had vanished as suddenly as it had appeared .
5 The King , who never doubted the truth of this tale , bade his son go to rest at once and recover from the fatigues of the night ; but he himself went and ordered many feasts to be held in honour of the preservation of the wonderful fruit .
6 The whole capital was in a stir , and everyone shared in the King 's joy ; the Prince alone took no part in the festivities .
7 While the King was at a banquet , Iwanich took some purses of gold , and mounting the quickest horse in the royal stable , he sped off like the wind without a single soul being any the wiser .
8 It was only on the next day that they missed him ; the King was very distressed at his disappearance , and sent search-parties all over the kingdom to look for him , but in vain ; and after six months they gave him up as dead , and in another six months they had forgotten all about him .
9 But in the meantime the Prince , with the help of his ring , had had a most successful journey , and no evil had befallen him .
10 At the end of three months he came to the entrance of a huge forest , which looked as if it had never been trodden by human foot before , and which seemed to stretch out indefinitely .
11 The Prince was about to enter the wood by a little path he had discovered , when he heard a voice shouting to him : ` Hold , youth !
12 Whither are you going ? '
13 Iwanich turned round , and saw a tall , gaunt-looking man , clad in miserable rags , leaning on a crooked staff and seated at the foot of an oak tree , which was so much the same colour as himself that it was little wonder the Prince had ridden past the tree without noticing him .
14 ` Where else should I be going , ' he said , ` than through the wood ? '
15 ` Through the wood ? '
16 said the old man in amazement .
17 ` It 's easily seen that you have heard nothing of this forest , that you rush so blindly to meet your doom .
18 Well , listen to me before you ride any further ; let me tell you that this wood hides in its depths a countless number of the fiercest tigers , hyenas , wolves , bears , and snakes , and all sorts of other monsters .
19 If I were to cut you and your horse up into tiny morsels and throw them to the beasts , there would n't be one bit for each hundred of them .
20 Take my advice , therefore , and if you wish to save your life follow some other path . '
21 The Prince was rather taken aback by the old man 's words , and considered for a minute what he should do ; then looking at his XXXXX , and perceiving that it sparkled as brightly as ever , he called out : ` If this wood held even more terrible things than it does , I can not help myself , for I must go through it . '	ring		bit|day|foot|forest|help|man|ring|tigers|wolves|wood

1 ` You useless ne'er - do-weel ! '
2 exclaimed his mother in a great passion .
3 ` Leave the house at once , and go and beg your bread among strangers ; ' and as Martin did not dare to contradict her , he called Schurka and Waska and started off with them to the nearest village in search of work .
4 On the way he met a rich peasant , who asked him where he was going . '
5 I want to get work as a day labourer , ' he answered .
6 ` Come along with me , then .
7 But I must tell you I engage my labourers without wages .
8 If you serve me faithfully for a year , I promise you it shall be for your advantage . '
9 So Martin consented , and for a year he worked diligently , and served his master faithfully , not sparing himself in any way .
10 When the day of reckoning had come the peasant led him into a barn , and pointing to two full sacks , said : ` Take whichever of these you choose . '
11 Martin examined the contents of the sacks , and seeing that one was full of silver and the other of sand , he said to himself : ` There must be some trick about this ; I had better take the sand . '
12 And throwing the sack over his shoulders he started out into the world , in search of fresh work .
13 On and on he walked , and at last he reached a great gloomy wood .
14 In the middle of the wood he came upon a meadow , where a fire was burning , and in the midst of the fire , surrounded by flames , was a lovely damsel , more beautiful than anything that Martin had ever seen , and when she saw him she called to him : ` Martin , if you would win happiness , save my life .
15 Extinguish the flames with the sand that you earned in payment of your faithful service . '
16 ` Truly , ' thought Martin to himself , ` it would be more sensible to save a fellow-being 's life with this sand than to drag it about on one 's back , seeing what a weight it is . '
17 And forthwith he lowered the sack from his shoulders and emptied its contents on the flames , and instantly the fire was extinguished ; but at the same moment lo !
18 and behold the lovely damsel turned into a Serpent , and , darting upon him , coiled itself round his neck , and whispered lovingly in his ear : ` Do not be afraid of me , Martin ; I love you , and will go with you through the world .
19 But first you must follow me boldly into my Father 's Kingdom , underneath the earth ; and when we get there , remember this -- he will offer you gold and silver , and dazzling gems , but do not touch them .
20 Ask him , instead , for the ring which he wears on his little finger , for in that ring lies a magic power ; you have only to throw it from one hand to the other , and at once twelve young men will appear , who will do your bidding , no matter how difficult , in a single night . '
21 So they started on their XXXXX , and after much wandering they reached a spot where a great rock rose straight up in the middle of the road .	way		damsel|ear|meadow|midst|passion|payment|trick|wages|way|world

1 When the boat could no longer be seen the child began to cry , and though the Witch tried to quiet it she could not manage it ; so she went below to where the King was sleeping with the child on her arm , and awakened him , scolding him for leaving them alone on deck , while he and all the crew were asleep .
2 It was great carelessness of him , she said , to leave no one to watch the ship with her .
3 Sigurd was greatly surprised to hear his Queen scold him so much , for she had never said an angry word to him before ; but he thought it was quite excusable in this case , and tried to quiet the child along with her , but it was no use .
4 Then he went and wakened the sailors , and bade them hoist the sails , for a breeze had sprung up and was blowing straight towards the harbour .
5 They soon reached the land which Sigurd was to rule over , and found all the people sorrowful for the old King 's death , but they became glad when they got Sigurd back to the Court , and made him King over them .
6 The King 's son , however , hardly ever stopped crying from the time he had been taken from his mother on the deck of the ship , although he had always been such a good child before , so that at last the King had to get a nurse for him -- one of the maids of the Court .
7 As soon as the child got into her charge he stopped crying , and behaved well as before .
8 After the sea-voyage it seemed to the King that the Queen had altered very much in many ways , and not for the better .
9 He thought her much more haughty and stubborn and difficult to deal with than she used to be .
10 Before long others began to notice this as well as the King .
11 In the Court there were two young fellows , one of eighteen years old , the other of nineteen , who were very fond of playing chess , and often sat long inside playing at it .
12 Their room was next the Queen 's , and often during the day they heard the Queen talking .
13 One day they paid more attention than usual when they heard her talk , and put their ears close to a crack in the wall between the rooms , and heard the Queen say quite plainly , ` When I yawn a little , then I am a nice little maiden ; when I yawn half-way , then I am half a troll ; and when I yawn fully , then I am a troll altogether . '
14 As she said this she yawned tremendously , and in a moment had put on the appearance of a fearfully ugly troll .
15 Then there came up through the floor of the room a three-headed Giant with a trough full of meat , who saluted her as his sister and set down the trough before her .
16 She began to eat out of it , and never stopped till she had finished it .
17 The young fellows saw all this going on , but did not hear the two of them say anything to each other .
18 They were astonished though at how greedily the Queen devoured the meat , and how much she ate of it , and were no longer surprised that she took so little when she sat at table with the King .
19 As soon as she had finished it the Giant disappeared with the trough by the same way as he had come , and the Queen returned to her human shape .
20 Now we must go back to the King 's son after he had been put in charge of the nurse .
21 One evening , after she had lit a candle and was holding the child , several planks sprang up in the floor of the XXXXX , and out at the opening came a beautiful woman dressed in white , with an iron belt round her waist , to which was fastened an iron chain that went down into the ground .	room		arm|charge|death|land|mother|one|room|sails|use|wall

1 Then he turned aside to tell Bagheera how he had begged the Master Words from Hathi the Wild Elephant , who knows all about these things , and how Hathi had taken Mowgli down to a pool to get the Snake Word from a water-snake , because Baloo could not pronounce it , and how Mowgli was now reasonably safe against all accidents in the jungle , because neither snake , bird , nor beast would hurt him .
2 `` No one then is to be feared , '' Baloo wound up , patting his big furry stomach with pride .
3 `` Except his own tribe , '' said Bagheera , under his breath ; and then aloud to Mowgli , `` Have a care for my ribs , Little Brother !
4 What is all this dancing up and down ? ''
5 Mowgli had been trying to make himself heard by pulling at Bagheera 's shoulder fur and kicking hard .
6 When the two listened to him he was shouting at the top of his voice , `` And so I shall have a tribe of my own , and lead them through the branches all day long . ''
7 `` What is this new folly , little dreamer of dreams ? ''
8 said Bagheera .
9 `` Yes , and throw branches and dirt at old Baloo , '' Mowgli went on .
10 `` They have promised me this .
11 Ah ! ''
12 `` Whoof ! ''
13 Baloo 's big paw scooped Mowgli off Bagheera 's back , and as the boy lay between the big fore-paws he could see the Bear was angry .
14 `` Mowgli , '' said Baloo , `` thou hast been talking with the Bandar-log -- the Monkey People . ''
15 Mowgli looked at Bagheera to see if the Panther was angry too , and Bagheera 's eyes were as hard as jade stones .
16 `` Thou hast been with the Monkey People -- the gray apes -- the people without a law -- the eaters of everything .
17 That is great shame . ''
18 `` When Baloo hurt my head , '' said Mowgli -LRB- he was still on his back -RRB- , `` I went away , and the gray apes came down from the trees and had pity on me .
19 No one else cared . ''
20 He snuffled a little .
21 `` The XXXXX of the Monkey People ! ''	pity		back|branches|dancing|eyes|one|paw|pity|shame|top|tribe

1 Then he took out his little bell and rang it twice .
2 In a moment the King of the Foxes stood before him and said : ' I know already what you want , and will summon all the foxes of the world together to find the mare who has hidden herself in a hill . '
3 With these words the King of the Foxes disappeared , and in the evening many thousand foxes brought the mare to the Prince .
4 Then he rode home to the Mother-Dragon , from whom he received this time a cloak made of silver , and again she led him to the ball-room .
5 The Flower Queen 's daughter was delighted to see him safe and sound , and when they were dancing together she whispered in his ear : ` If you succeed again to-morrow , wait for me with the foal in the meadow .
6 After the ball we will fly away together . '
7 On the third day the Prince led the mare to the meadow again ; but once more she vanished before his eyes .
8 Then the Prince took out his little bell and rang it three times .
9 In a moment the King of the Fishes appeared , and said to him : ' I know quite well what you want me to do , and I will summon all the fishes of the sea together , and tell them to bring you back the mare , who is hiding herself in a river . '
10 Towards evening the mare was returned to him , and when he led her home to the Mother Dragon she said to him : ` You are a brave youth , and I will make you my body-servant .
11 But what shall I give you as a reward to begin with ? '
12 The Prince begged for a foal of the mare , which the Mother Dragon at once gave him , and over and above , a cloak made of gold , for she had fallen in love with him because he had praised her beauty .
13 So in the evening he appeared at the ball in his golden cloak ; but before the entertainment was over he slipped away , and went straight to the stables , where he mounted his foal and rode out into the meadow to wait for the Flower Queen 's daughter .
14 Towards midnight the beautiful girl appeared , and placing her in front of him on his horse , the Prince and she flew like the wind till they reached the Flower Queen 's dwelling .
15 But the dragons had noticed their flight , and woke their brother out of his year 's sleep .
16 He flew into a terrible rage when he heard what had happened , and determined to lay siege to the Flower Queen 's palace ; but the Queen caused a forest of flowers as high as the sky to grow up round her dwelling , through which no one could force a way .
17 When the Flower Queen heard that her daughter wanted to marry the Prince , she said to him : ' I will give my consent to your marriage gladly , but my daughter can only stay with you in summer .
18 In winter , when everything is dead and the ground covered with snow , she must come and live with me in my palace underground . '
19 The Prince consented to this , and led his beautiful bride home , where the wedding was held with great pomp and magnificence .
20 The young couple lived happily together till winter came , when the Flower Queen 's daughter departed and went home to her mother .
21 In XXXXX she returned to her husband , and their life of joy and happiness began again , and lasted till the approach of winter , when the Flower Queen 's daughter went back again to her mother .	summer		consent|couple|daughter|day|front|meadow|reward|sleep|summer|world

1 `` I heard something under that old board , and I just naturally turned it over to find out what was there . ''
2 `` Hump ! ''
3 grunted Old Mr. Toad .
4 `` I did n't have the least idea that you were there , '' continued Peter .
5 `` When I found who it was , and what you were doing , I could n't help watching because it was so interesting , and I could n't help laughing because you really did look so funny .
6 But I 'm sorry , Mr. Toad .
7 Truly I am .
8 I did n't mean to be so impolite .
9 I promise never to do it again .
10 I do n't suppose , Mr. Toad , that it seems at all wonderful to you that you can change your suit that way , but it does to me .
11 I had heard that you swallowed your old suits , but I never half believed it .
12 Now I know it is so and just how you do it , and I feel as if I had learned something worth knowing .
13 Do you know , I think you are one of the most interesting and wonderful of all my neighbors , and I 'll never laugh at or tease you again , Mr. Toad . ''
14 `` Hump ! ''
15 grunted Old Mr. Toad again , but it was very clear that he was a little flattered by Peter 's interest in him and was rapidly recovering his good nature .
16 `` There is one thing I do n't understand yet , '' said Peter , `` and that is where you go to to sleep all winter .
17 Do you go down into the mud at the bottom of the Smiling Pool the way Grandfather Frog does ? ''
18 `` Certainly not ! ''
19 retorted Old Mr. Toad .
20 `` Use your common sense , Peter Rabbit .
21 If I had spent the winter in the Smiling Pool , do you suppose I would have left it to come XXXXX up here and then have turned right around and gone back there to sing ?	way		Pool|idea|mud|neighbors|sense|something|suit|suits|way|winter

1 For you will go to the rubbish heap with Nag .
2 Fight , widow !
3 The big man has gone for his gun !
4 Fight ! ''
5 Rikki-tikki was bounding all round Nagaina , keeping just out of reach of her stroke , his little eyes like hot coals .
6 Nagaina gathered herself together and flung out at him .
7 Rikki-tikki jumped up and backward .
8 Again and again and again she struck , and each time her head came with a whack on the matting of the veranda and she gathered herself together like a watch spring .
9 Then Rikki-tikki danced in a circle to get behind her , and Nagaina spun round to keep her head to his head , so that the rustle of her tail on the matting sounded like dry leaves blown along by the wind .
10 He had forgotten the egg .
11 It still lay on the veranda , and Nagaina came nearer and nearer to it , till at last , while Rikki-tikki was drawing breath , she caught it in her mouth , turned to the veranda steps , and flew like an arrow down the path , with Rikki-tikki behind her .
12 When the cobra runs for her life , she goes like a whip-lash flicked across a horse 's neck .
13 Rikki-tikki knew that he must catch her , or all the trouble would begin again .
14 She headed straight for the long grass by the thorn-bush , and as he was running Rikki-tikki heard Darzee still singing his foolish little song of triumph .
15 But Darzee 's wife was wiser .
16 She flew off her nest as Nagaina came along , and flapped her wings about Nagaina 's head .
17 If Darzee had helped they might have turned her , but Nagaina only lowered her hood and went on .
18 Still , the instant 's delay brought Rikki-tikki up to her , and as she plunged into the rat-hole where she and Nag used to live , his little white teeth were clenched on her tail , and he went down with her -- and very few mongooses , however wise and old they may be , care to follow a cobra into its hole .
19 It was dark in the hole ; and Rikki-tikki never knew when it might open out and give Nagaina room to turn and strike at him .
20 He held on savagely , and stuck out his feet to act as brakes on the dark slope of the hot , moist earth .
21 Then the grass by the XXXXX of the hole stopped waving , and Darzee said , `` It is all over with Rikki-tikki !	mouth		Fight|delay|horse|leaves|mouth|reach|room|round|veranda|wings

1 Accordingly he went in to where she was , and she opened a large room for him , where he saw a number of men lying asleep .
2 She then set food before him , and after that showed him to the room where the others were .
3 He lay down on one of the beds and fell sound asleep .
4 And now we must go back to the two that he left behind him in the wood .
5 When nightfall and the time of the wild beasts came upon these , the Englishman happened to climb up into the very same tree on which the Scotsman was when he got a sight of the castle ; and as soon as the day began to dawn and the Englishman looked to the four quarters of heaven , what did he see but the castle too !
6 Off he went without saying a word to the Irishman , and everything happened to him just as it had done to the Scotsman .
7 The poor Irishman was now left all alone , and did not know where the others had gone to , so he just stayed where he was , very sad and miserable .
8 When night came he climbed up into the same tree as the Englishman had been on the night before .
9 As soon as day came he also saw the castle , and set out towards it ; but when he reached it he could see no signs of fire or living being about it .
10 Before long , however , he heard the window opened above his head , looked up , and beheld the most beautiful woman he had ever seen .
11 He asked if she would give him food and drink , and she answered kindly and heartily that she would , if he would only come inside .
12 This he did very willingly , and she set before him food and drink that he had never seen the like of before .
13 In the room there was a bed , with diamond rings hanging at every loop of the curtains , and everything that was in the room besides astonished him so much that he actually forgot that he was hungry .
14 When she saw that he was not eating at all , she asked him what he wanted yet , to which he replied that he would neither eat nor drink until he knew who she was , or where she came from , or who had put her there . '
15 I shall tell you that , ' said she . '
16 I am an enchanted Princess , and my father has promised that the man who releases me from the spell shall have the third of his kingdom while he is alive , and the whole of it after he is dead , and marry me as well .
17 If ever I saw a man who looked likely to do this , you are the one .
18 I have been here for sixteen years now , and no one who ever came to the castle has asked me who I was , except yourself .
19 Every other man that has come , so long as I have been here , lies asleep in the big room down there . '
20 ` Tell me , then , ' said the Irishman , ` what is the spell that has been laid on you , and how you can be freed from it . '
21 ` There is a little room there , ' said the Princess , ` and if I could get a XXXXX to stay in it from ten o'clock till midnight for three nights on end I should be freed from the spell . ' '	man		castle|everything|father|living|man|one|others|room|window|word

1 one of the jury asked .
2 ` That I ca n't remember , ' said the Hatter .
3 ` You MUST remember , ' remarked the King , ` or I 'll have you executed . '
4 The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter , and went down on one knee .
5 ` I 'm a poor man , your Majesty , ' he began .
6 ` You 're a very poor speaker , ' said the King .
7 Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered , and was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court .
8 -LRB- As that is rather a hard word , I will just explain to you how it was done .
9 They had a large canvas bag , which tied up at the mouth with strings : into this they slipped the guinea-pig , head first , and then sat upon it . -RRB-
10 ` I 'm glad I 've seen that done , ' thought Alice .
11 ` I 've so often read in the newspapers , at the end of trials , `` There was some attempts at applause , which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court , '' and I never understood what it meant till now . '
12 ` If that 's all you know about it , you may stand down , ' continued the King . '
13 I ca n't go no lower , ' said the Hatter : ` I 'm on the floor , as it is . '
14 ` Then you may SIT down , ' the King replied .
15 Here the other guinea-pig cheered , and was suppressed .
16 ` Come , that finished the guinea-pigs ! '
17 thought Alice .
18 ` Now we shall get on better . '
19 ` I 'd rather finish my tea , ' said the Hatter , with an anxious look at the Queen , who was reading the list of singers .
20 ` You may go , ' said the King , and the Hatter hurriedly left the court , without even waiting to put his shoes on . '
21 -- and just take his head off outside , ' the Queen added to one of the XXXXX : but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door .	officers		SIT|floor|knee|look|newspapers|officers|shoes|speaker|tea|word

1 Then Little Toomai would climb up to the top of one of the quivering stockade posts , his sun-bleached brown hair flying loose all over his shoulders , and he looking like a goblin in the torch-light .
2 And as soon as there was a lull you could hear his high-pitched yells of encouragement to Kala Nag , above the trumpeting and crashing , and snapping of ropes , and groans of the tethered elephants .
3 `` Mael , mael , Kala Nag !
4 -LRB- Go on , go on , Black Snake ! -RRB-
5 Dant do !
6 -LRB- Give him the tusk ! -RRB-
7 Somalo !
8 Somalo !
9 -LRB- Careful , careful ! -RRB-
10 Maro !
11 Mar !
12 -LRB- Hit him , hit him ! -RRB-
13 Mind the post !
14 Arre !
15 Arre !
16 Hai !
17 Yai !
18 Kya-a-ah ! ''
19 he would shout , and the big fight between Kala Nag and the wild elephant would sway to and fro across the Keddah , and the old elephant catchers would wipe the sweat out of their eyes , and find time to nod to Little Toomai wriggling with joy on the top of the posts .
20 He did more than wriggle .
21 One night he slid down from the post and slipped in between the XXXXX and threw up the loose end of a rope , which had dropped , to a driver who was trying to get a purchase on the leg of a kicking young calf -LRB- calves always give more trouble than full-grown animals -RRB- .	elephants		Mar|Snake|elephant|elephants|encouragement|fight|lull|post|ropes|top

1 ` Quite warm , King Frost , ' she answered , though she shivered as she spoke .
2 Then King Frost stooped down , and bent over the girl , and the crackling sound grew louder , and the air seemed to be full of knives and darts ; and again he asked : ` Maiden , are you warm ?
3 Are you warm , you beautiful girl ? '
4 And though her breath was almost frozen on her lips , she whispered gently , ` Quite warm , King Frost . '
5 Then King Frost gnashed his teeth , and cracked his fingers , and his eyes sparkled , and the crackling , crisp sound was louder than ever , and for the last time he asked her : ` Maiden , are you still warm ?
6 Are you still warm , little love ? '
7 And the poor girl was so stiff and numb that she could just gasp , ` Still warm , O King ! '
8 Now her gentle , courteous words and her uncomplaining ways touched King Frost , and he had pity on her , and he wrapped her up in furs , and covered her with blankets , and he fetched a great box , in which were beautiful jewels and a rich robe embroidered in gold and silver .
9 And she put it on , and looked more lovely than ever , and King Frost stepped with her into his sledge , with six white horses .
10 In the meantime the wicked step-mother was waiting at home for news of the girl 's death , and preparing pancakes for the funeral feast .
11 And she said to her husband : ` Old man , you had better go out into the fields and find your daughter 's body and bury her . '
12 Just as the old man was leaving the house the little dog under the table began to bark , saying : ` YOUR daughter shall live to be your delight ; HER daughter shall die this very night . '
13 ` Hold your tongue , you foolish beast ! '
14 scolded the woman .
15 ` There 's a pancake for you , but you must say : `` HER daughter shall have much silver and gold ; HIS daughter is frozen quite stiff and cold . '' '
16 But the doggie ate up the pancake and barked , saying : ` His daughter shall wear a crown on her head ; Her daughter shall die unwooed , unwed . '
17 Then the old woman tried to coax the doggie with more pancakes and to terrify it with blows , but he barked on , always repeating the same words .
18 And suddenly the door creaked and flew open , and a great heavy chest was pushed in , and behind it came the step-daughter , radiant and beautiful , in a dress all glittering with silver and gold .
19 For a moment the step-mother 's eyes were dazzled .
20 Then she called to her husband : ` Old man , yoke the horses at once into the sledge , and take my daughter to the same field and leave her on the same spot exactly ; ` and so the old man took the girl and left her beneath the same tree where he had parted from his daughter .
21 In a few minutes King Frost came past , and , looking at the XXXXX , he said : ` Are you warm , maiden ? '	girl		Frost|air|beast|bent|delight|dress|furs|girl|sound|time

1 Then he shouted the same thing again , and yet again , but she never moved in her place ; and at last he grew angry , threw the glass in her face , so that she fell back into the cart , for she was not tied in her place .
2 ` Hullo ! '
3 cried Little Klaus , running out of the door , and seizing the host by the throat .
4 ` You have killed my grandmother !
5 Look !
6 there is a great hole in her forehead ! '
7 ` Oh , what a misfortune ! '
8 cried the host , wringing his hands .
9 ` It all comes from my hot temper !
10 Dear Little Klaus !
11 I will give you a bushel of money , and will bury your grandmother as if she were my own ; only do n't tell about it , or I shall have my head cut off , and that would be very uncomfortable . '
12 So Little Klaus got a bushel of money , and the host buried his grandmother as if she had been his own .
13 Now when Little Klaus again reached home with so much money he sent his boy to Big Klaus to borrow his bushel measure .
14 ` What 's this ? '
15 said Big Klaus .
16 ` Did n't I kill him ?
17 I must see to this myself ! '
18 So he went himself to Little Klaus with the measure .
19 ` Well , now , where did you get all this money ? '
20 asked he , opening his eyes at the heap .
21 ` You killed my XXXXX -- not me , ' said Little Klaus . '	grandmother		door|glass|grandmother|heap|hole|host|measure|misfortune|place|throat

1 I never allow anyone to skate there .
2 I ai n't going to have a parcel of whooping , yelling youngsters tearing over my fences , disturbing my sleep at nights , and like as not setting fire to my barns .
3 No , sir !
4 I ai n't going to rent that pond for no skating-rink . ''
5 Ned smothered a smile .
6 `` Just wait a moment , Mr. Dutcher , '' he said respectfully .
7 `` I want you to hear my proposition before you refuse definitely .
8 First , I 'll give you ten dollars for the rent of the pond ; then I 'll see that there will be no running over your fields and climbing your fences , no lighting of fire or matches about it , and no ` whooping and yelling ' at nights .
9 My rink will be open only from two to six in the afternoon and from seven to ten in the evening .
10 During that time I shall always be at the pond to keep everything in order .
11 The skaters will come and go by the lane leading from the barn to the road .
12 I think that if you agree to my proposition , Mr. Dutcher , you will not regret it . ''
13 `` What 's to prevent my running such a rink myself ? ''
14 asked Old Dutcher gruffly .
15 `` It would n't pay you , Mr. Dutcher , '' answered Ned promptly .
16 `` The Carleton boys would n't patronize a rink run by you . ''
17 Old Dutcher 's eyes twinkled .
18 It did not displease him to know that the Carleton boys hated him .
19 In fact , it seemed as if he rather liked it .
20 `` Besides , '' went on Ned , `` you could n't afford the time .
21 You could n't be on the XXXXX for eight hours a day and until ten o'clock at night .	pond		Mr.|Old|anyone|barn|lighting|pond|proposition|rent|run|sleep

1 Then the youth went into a room in the castle where everything was made of silver , and here he found another beautiful girl , the sister of his bride .
2 She was combing her silver hair , and every hair that fell on the ground rang out like pure metal .
3 The second girl handed him the sword , but though he tried with all his strength he could not lift it .
4 At last a third sister came to him and gave him a drop of something to drink , which she said would give him the needful strength .
5 He drank one drop , but still he could not lift the sword ; then he drank a second , and the sword began to move ; but only after he had drunk a third drop was he able to swing the sword over his head .
6 Then he hid himself in the castle and awaited the old witch 's arrival .
7 At last as it was beginning to grow dark she appeared .
8 She swooped down upon a big apple-tree , and after shaking some golden apples from it , she pounced down upon the earth .
9 As soon as her feet touched the ground she became transformed from a hawk into a woman .
10 This was the moment the youth was waiting for , and he swung his mighty sword in the air with all his strength and the witch 's head fell off , and her blood spurted up on the walls .
11 Without fear of any further danger , he packed up all the treasures of the castle into great chests , and gave his brothers a signal to pull them up out of the abyss .
12 First the treasures were attached to the rope and then the three lovely girls .
13 And now everything was up above and only he himself remained below .
14 But as he was a little suspicious of his brothers , he fastened a heavy stone on to the rope and let them pull it up .
15 At first they heaved with a will , but when the stone was half way up they let it drop suddenly , and it fell to the bottom broken into a hundred pieces .
16 ` So that 's what would have happened to my bones had I trusted myself to them , ' said the youth sadly ; and he began to cry bitterly , not because of the treasures , but because of the lovely girl with her swanlike neck and golden hair .
17 For a long time he wandered sadly all through the beautiful underworld , and one day he met a magician who asked him the cause of his tears .
18 The youth told him all that had befallen him , and the magician said : ` Do not grieve , young man !
19 If you will guard the children who are hidden in the golden apple-tree , I will bring you at once up to the earth .
20 Another magician who lives in this land always eats my children up .
21 It is in vain that I have hidden them under the earth and locked them into the XXXXX .	castle		air|blood|bones|bride|castle|chests|ground|room|sister|way

1 The King replied , ` Then both your heads must be staked , and your head and his must be guaranteed for the winner . '
2 When this was agreed upon and settled , the man strapped on the runner 's other leg , saying to him , ` Now be nimble , and see that we win ! '
3 It was arranged that whoever should first bring water out of a stream a long way off , should be the victor .
4 Then the runner got a pitcher , and the King 's daughter another , and they began to run at the same time ; but in a moment , when the King 's daughter was only just a little way off , no spectator could see the runner , and it seemed as if the wind had whistled past .
5 In a short time he reached the stream , filled his pitcher with water , and turned round again .
6 But , half way home , a great drowsiness came over him ; he put down his pitcher , lay down , and fell asleep .
7 He had , however , put a horse 's skull which was lying on the ground , for his pillow , so that he should not be too comfortable and might soon wake up .
8 In the meantime the King 's daughter , who could also run well , as well as an ordinary man could , reached the stream , and hastened back with her pitcher full of water .
9 When she saw the runner lying there asleep , she was delighted , and said , ` My enemy is given into my hands ! '
10 She emptied his pitcher and ran on .
11 Everything now would have been lost , if by good luck the hunter had not been standing on the castle tower and had seen everything with his sharp eyes .
12 ` Ah , ' said he , ` the King 's daughter shall not overreach us ; ' and , loading his gun , he shot so cleverly , that he shot away the horse 's skull from under the runner 's head , without its hurting him .
13 Then the runner awoke , jumped up , and saw that his pitcher was empty and the King 's daughter far ahead .
14 But he did not lose courage , and ran back to the stream with his pitcher , filled it once more with water , and was home ten minutes before the King 's daughter arrived .
15 ` Look , ' said he , ' I have only just exercised my legs ; that was nothing of a run . '
16 But the King was angry , and his daughter even more so , that she should be carried away by a common , discharged soldier .
17 They consulted together how they could destroy both him and his companions .
18 ` Then , ' said the King to her , ' I have found a way .
19 Do n't be frightened ; they shall not come home again . '
20 He said to them , ` You must now make merry together , and eat and drink , ' and he led them into a room which had a floor of iron ; the doors were also of iron , and the windows were barred with iron .
21 In the XXXXX was a table spread with delicious food .	room		companions|heads|luck|moment|nothing|room|victor|way|wind|winner

1 said the King , with an air of great relief .
2 ` Call the next witness . '
3 And he added in an undertone to the Queen , ` Really , my dear , YOU must cross-examine the next witness .
4 It quite makes my forehead ache ! '
5 Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list , feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like , ' -- for they have n't got much evidence YET , ' she said to herself .
6 Imagine her surprise , when the White Rabbit read out , at the top of his shrill little voice , the name ` Alice ! '
7 CHAPTER XII .
8 Alice 's Evidence ` Here ! '
9 cried Alice , quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes , and she jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt , upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below , and there they lay sprawling about , reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before .
10 ` Oh , I BEG your pardon ! '
11 she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay , and began picking them up again as quickly as she could , for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head , and she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury-box , or they would die .
12 ` The trial can not proceed , ' said the King in a very grave voice , ` until all the jurymen are back in their proper places -- ALL , ' he repeated with great emphasis , looking hard at Alice as he said do .
13 Alice looked at the jury-box , and saw that , in her haste , she had put the Lizard in head downwards , and the poor little thing was waving its tail about in a melancholy way , being quite unable to move .
14 She soon got it out again , and put it right ; ` not that it signifies much , ' she said to herself ; ' I should think it would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up as the other . '
15 As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being upset , and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to them , they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident , all except the Lizard , who seemed too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open , gazing up into the roof of the court .
16 ` What do you know about this business ? '
17 the King said to Alice .
18 ` Nothing , ' said Alice .
19 ` Nothing WHATEVER ? '
20 persisted the King .
21 ` XXXXX whatever , ' said Alice .	Nothing		Nothing|court|emphasis|hurry|mouth|relief|roof|thing|trial|way

1 The food she was eating seemed to choke her .
2 She wished she were a hundred miles away from everyone she ever knew .
3 Mrs. Bowes gave a grunt of dissatisfaction .
4 `` Well , I think it is a pretty queer piece of business .
5 But if you are satisfied , it is n't anyone else 's concern , I suppose .
6 He stayed with her till ten o'clock and when he left she did everything but kiss him -- and she asked him to come back too .
7 I heard . ''
8 `` Aunt ! ''
9 protested the girl .
10 She felt as if her aunt were striking her blow after blow on a sensitive , quivering spot .
11 It was bad enough to know it all , but to hear it put into such cold , brutal words was more than she could endure .
12 It seemed to make everything so horribly sure .
13 `` I guess I had a right to listen , had n't I , with such goings on in my own house ?
14 You 're a little fool , Estella Bowes !
15 I do n't believe that LeMar girl is a bit better than she ought to be .
16 I wish I 'd never taken her to board , and if you say so , I 'll send her packing right off and not give her a chance to make mischief atween folks . ''
17 Estella 's suffering found vent in a burst of anger .
18 `` You need n't do anything of the sort ! ''
19 she cried .
20 `` It 's all nonsense about Spencer -- it was my fault -- and anyhow , if he is so easily led away as that , I am sure I do n't want him !
21 I wish to goodness , XXXXX , you 'd leave me alone ! ''	Aunt		Aunt|Mrs.|anyone|board|food|girl|house|kiss|packing|words

1 Let her do what she would , she was always blamed , and got small thanks for all the trouble she took ; nothing was right , everything wrong ; and yet , if the truth were known , the girl was worth her weight in gold -- she was so unselfish and good-hearted .
2 But her step-mother did not like her , and the poor girl 's days were spent in weeping ; for it was impossible to live peacefully with the woman .
3 The wicked shrew was determined to get rid of the girl by fair means or foul , and kept saying to her father : ` Send her away , old man ; send her away -- anywhere so that my eyes sha 'n' t be plagued any longer by the sight of her , or my ears tormented by the sound of her voice .
4 Send her out into the fields , and let the cutting frost do for her . '
5 In vain did the poor old father weep and implore her pity ; she was firm , and he dared not gainsay her .
6 So he placed his daughter in a sledge , not even daring to give her a horse-cloth to keep herself warm with , and drove her out on to the bare , open fields , where he kissed her and left her , driving home as fast as he could , that he might not witness her miserable death .
7 Deserted by her father , the poor girl sat down under a fir-tree at the edge of the forest and began to weep silently .
8 Suddenly she heard a faint sound : it was King Frost springing from tree to tree , and cracking his fingers as he went .
9 At length he reached the fir-tree beneath which she was sitting , and with a crisp crackling sound he alighted beside her , and looked at her lovely face .
10 ` Well , maiden , ' he snapped out , ` do you know who I am ?
11 I am King Frost , king of the red-noses . '
12 ` All hail to you , great King ! '
13 answered the girl , in a gentle , trembling voice .
14 ` Have you come to take me ? '
15 ` Are you warm , maiden ? '
16 he replied .
17 ` Quite warm , King Frost , ' she answered , though she shivered as she spoke .
18 Then King Frost stooped down , and bent over the girl , and the crackling sound grew louder , and the air seemed to be full of knives and darts ; and again he asked : ` Maiden , are you warm ?
19 Are you warm , you beautiful girl ? '
20 And though her breath was almost frozen on her lips , she whispered gently , ` Quite warm , King Frost . '
21 Then King Frost gnashed his teeth , and cracked his fingers , and his eyes sparkled , and the crackling , crisp XXXXX was louder than ever , and for the last time he asked her : ` Maiden , are you still warm ?	sound		Frost|Maiden|breath|death|ears|face|father|knives|sound|t

1 They have no remembrance .
2 They boast and chatter and pretend that they are a great people about to do great affairs in the jungle , but the falling of a nut turns their minds to laughter and all is forgotten .
3 We of the jungle have no dealings with them .
4 We do not drink where the monkeys drink ; we do not go where the monkeys go ; we do not hunt where they hunt ; we do not die where they die .
5 Hast thou ever heard me speak of the Bandar-log till today ? ''
6 `` No , '' said Mowgli in a whisper , for the forest was very still now Baloo had finished .
7 `` The Jungle-People put them out of their mouths and out of their minds .
8 They are very many , evil , dirty , shameless , and they desire , if they have any fixed desire , to be noticed by the Jungle People .
9 But we do not notice them even when they throw nuts and filth on our heads . ''
10 He had hardly spoken when a shower of nuts and twigs spattered down through the branches ; and they could hear coughings and howlings and angry jumpings high up in the air among the thin branches .
11 `` The Monkey-People are forbidden , '' said Baloo , `` forbidden to the Jungle-People .
12 Remember . ''
13 `` Forbidden , '' said Bagheera , `` but I still think Baloo should have warned thee against them . ''
14 `` I -- I ?
15 How was I to guess he would play with such dirt .
16 The Monkey People !
17 Faugh ! ''
18 A fresh shower came down on their heads and the two trotted away , taking Mowgli with them .
19 What Baloo had said about the monkeys was perfectly true .
20 They belonged to the tree-tops , and as beasts very seldom look up , there was no occasion for the monkeys and the Jungle-People to cross each other 's path .
21 But whenever they found a sick wolf , or a wounded tiger , or bear , the XXXXX would torment him , and would throw sticks and nuts at any beast for fun and in the hope of being noticed .	monkeys		beasts|chatter|dealings|filth|heads|hunt|jungle|monkeys|nuts|today

1 At last the elephants began to lie down one after another as is their custom , till only Kala Nag at the right of the line was left standing up ; and he rocked slowly from side to side , his ears put forward to listen to the night wind as it blew very slowly across the hills .
2 The air was full of all the night noises that , taken together , make one big silence -- the click of one bamboo stem against the other , the rustle of something alive in the undergrowth , the scratch and squawk of a half-waked bird -LRB- birds are awake in the night much more often than we imagine -RRB- , and the fall of water ever so far away .
3 Little Toomai slept for some time , and when he waked it was brilliant moonlight , and Kala Nag was still standing up with his ears cocked .
4 Little Toomai turned , rustling in the fodder , and watched the curve of his big back against half the stars in heaven , and while he watched he heard , so far away that it sounded no more than a pinhole of noise pricked through the stillness , the `` hoot-toot '' of a wild elephant .
5 All the elephants in the lines jumped up as if they had been shot , and their grunts at last waked the sleeping mahouts , and they came out and drove in the picket pegs with big mallets , and tightened this rope and knotted that till all was quiet .
6 One new elephant had nearly grubbed up his picket , and Big Toomai took off Kala Nag 's leg chain and shackled that elephant fore-foot to hind-foot , but slipped a loop of grass string round Kala Nag 's leg , and told him to remember that he was tied fast .
7 He knew that he and his father and his grandfather had done the very same thing hundreds of times before .
8 Kala Nag did not answer to the order by gurgling , as he usually did .
9 He stood still , looking out across the moonlight , his head a little raised and his ears spread like fans , up to the great folds of the Garo hills .
10 `` Tend to him if he grows restless in the night , '' said Big Toomai to Little Toomai , and he went into the hut and slept .
11 Little Toomai was just going to sleep , too , when he heard the coir string snap with a little `` tang , '' and Kala Nag rolled out of his pickets as slowly and as silently as a cloud rolls out of the mouth of a valley .
12 Little Toomai pattered after him , barefooted , down the road in the moonlight , calling under his breath , `` Kala Nag !
13 Kala Nag !
14 Take me with you , O Kala Nag ! ''
15 The elephant turned , without a sound , took three strides back to the boy in the moonlight , put down his trunk , swung him up to his neck , and almost before Little Toomai had settled his knees , slipped into the forest .
16 There was one blast of furious trumpeting from the lines , and then the silence shut down on everything , and Kala Nag began to move .
17 Sometimes a tuft of high grass washed along his sides as a wave washes along the sides of a ship , and sometimes a cluster of wild-pepper vines would scrape along his back , or a bamboo would creak where his shoulder touched it .
18 But between those times he moved absolutely without any sound , drifting through the thick Garo forest as though it had been smoke .
19 He was going uphill , but though Little Toomai watched the stars in the rifts of the trees , he could not tell in what direction .
20 Then Kala Nag reached the crest of the ascent and stopped for a minute , and Little Toomai could see the tops of the trees lying all speckled and furry under the moonlight for miles and miles , and the blue-white mist over the river in the hollow .
21 Toomai leaned forward and looked , and he felt that the XXXXX was awake below him -- awake and alive and crowded .	forest		ascent|custom|ears|elephants|forest|shoulder|sides|smoke|trees|valley

1 Naturally the Chickies and the Gooverooskies and the Epatkas -- the Burgomaster Gulls and the Kittiwakes and the Puffins , who are always looking for a chance to be rude , took up the cry , and -- so Limmershin told me -- for nearly five minutes you could not have heard a gun fired on Walrus Islet .
2 All the population was yelling and screaming `` Clam-eater !
3 Stareek -LSB- old man -RSB- ! ''
4 while Sea Vitch rolled from side to side grunting and coughing .
5 `` Now will you tell ? ''
6 said Kotick , all out of breath .
7 `` Go and ask Sea Cow , '' said Sea Vitch .
8 `` If he is living still , he 'll be able to tell you . ''
9 `` How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him ? ''
10 said Kotick , sheering off .
11 `` He 's the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch , '' screamed a Burgomaster gull , wheeling under Sea Vitch 's nose .
12 `` Uglier , and with worse manners !
13 Stareek ! ''
14 Kotick swam back to Novastoshnah , leaving the gulls to scream .
15 There he found that no one sympathized with him in his little attempt to discover a quiet place for the seals .
16 They told him that men had always driven the holluschickie -- it was part of the day 's work -- and that if he did not like to see ugly things he should not have gone to the killing grounds .
17 But none of the other seals had seen the killing , and that made the difference between him and his friends .
18 Besides , Kotick was a white seal .
19 `` What you must do , '' said old Sea Catch , after he had heard his son 's adventures , `` is to grow up and be a big seal like your father , and have a nursery on the beach , and then they will leave you alone .
20 In another five years you ought to be able to fight for yourself . ''
21 Even gentle Matkah , his mother , said : `` You will never be able to stop the XXXXX .	killing		adventures|attempt|beach|chance|killing|population|seal|seals|son|thing

1 Then the Giant rose up and said , ` Now come and I will reward you .
2 We are going to celebrate a marriage to-day , and I promise you we shall have plenty of fun .
3 Come and enjoy yourself , but in order that my brothers may n't see you , put this band round your waist and then you 'll be invisible . '
4 With these words he handed the Herd-boy a belt , and walking on in front he led him to a fountain where hundreds of Giants and Giantesses were assembled preparing to hold a wedding .
5 They danced and played different games till midnight ; then one of the Giants tore up a plant by its roots , and all the Giants and Giantesses made themselves so thin that they disappeared into the earth through the hole made by the uprooting of the plant .
6 The wounded Giant remained behind to the last and called out , ` Herd-boy , where are you ? '
7 ` Here I am , close to you , ' was the reply .
8 ` Touch me , ' said the Giant , ` so that you too may come with us under ground . '
9 The Herd-boy did as he was told , and before he could have believed it possible he found himself in a big hall , where even the walls were made of pure gold .
10 Then to his astonishment he saw that the hall was furnished with the tables and chairs that belonged to his master .
11 In a few minutes the company began to eat and drink .
12 The banquet was a very gorgeous one , and the poor youth fell to and ate and drank lustily .
13 When he had eaten and drunk as much as he could he thought to himself , ` Why should n't I put a loaf of bread in my pocket ?
14 I shall be glad of it to-morrow . '
15 So he seized a loaf when no one was looking and stowed it away under his tunic .
16 No sooner had he done so than the wounded Giant limped up to him and whispered softly , ` Herd-boy , where are you ? '
17 ` Here I am , ' replied the youth .
18 ` Then hold on to me , ' said the Giant , ` so that I may lead you up above again . '
19 So the Herd-boy held on to the Giant , and in a few moments he found himself on the earth once more , but the Giant had vanished .
20 The Herd-boy returned to his sheep , and took off the invisible belt which he hid carefully in his bag .
21 The next morning the lad felt hungry , and thought he would cut off a piece of the XXXXX he had carried away from the Giants ' wedding feast , and eat it .	loaf		Giant|banquet|earth|front|games|gold|ground|loaf|reply|to-morrow

1 -LRB- 10 -RRB- Convent Gnothi .
2 The Queen gave money to the old woman , and bought the apple from her .
3 Then she peeled it , ate it , and threw the rind out of the window , and it so happened that a mare that was running loose in the court below ate up the rind .
4 After a time the Queen had a little boy , and the mare also had a male foal .
5 The boy and the foal grew up together and loved each other like brothers .
6 In course of time the King died , and so did the Queen , and their son , who was now nineteen years old , was left alone .
7 One day , when he and his horse were talking together , the Horse said to him , ` Listen to me , for I love you and wish for your good and that of the country .
8 If you go on every year sending twelve youths and twelve maidens to the King of the Beasts , your country will very soon be ruined .
9 Mount upon my back : I will take you to a woman who can direct you how to kill the Seven-headed Serpent . '
10 Then the youth mounted his horse , who carried him far away to a mountain which was hollow , for in its side was a great underground cavern .
11 In the cavern sat an old woman spinning .
12 This was the cloister of the nuns , and the old woman was the Abbess .
13 They all spent their time in spinning , and that is why the convent has this name .
14 All round the walls of the cavern there were beds cut out of the solid rock , upon which the nuns slept , and in the middle a light was burning .
15 It was the duty of the nuns to watch the light in turns , that it might never go out , and if anyone of them let it go out the others put her to death .
16 As soon as the King 's son saw the old Abbess spinning he threw himself at her feet and entreated her to tell him how he could kill the Seven-headed Serpent .
17 She made the youth rise , embraced him , and said , ` Know , my son , that it is I who sent the nun to your mother and caused you to be born , and with you the horse , with whose help you will be able to free the world from the monster .
18 I will tell you what you have to do .
19 Load your horse with cotton , and go by a secret passage which I will show you , which is hidden from the wild beasts , to the Serpent 's palace .
20 You will find the King asleep upon his bed , which is all hung round with bells , and over his bed you will see a sword hanging .
21 With this sword only it is possible to kill the XXXXX , because even if its blade breaks a new one will grow again for every head the monster has .	Serpent		Beasts|Load|Serpent|apple|boy|brothers|convent|light|round|walls

1 He did not know what to do with himself when he saw that she was gone , but before she went she had given him a little rod , with which he could , when he pleased , waken the men who had been sleeping there , some of them for sixteen years .
2 After being thus left alone , he went in and stretched himself on three chairs that were in the room , when what does he see coming in at the door but a little fair-haired lad .
3 ` Where did you come from , my lad ? '
4 said the Irishman . '
5 I came to make ready your food for you , ' said he .
6 ` Who told you to do that ? '
7 said the Irishman .
8 ` My mistress , ' answered the lad -- ` the Princess that was under the spell and is now free . '
9 By this the Irishman knew that she had sent the lad to wait on him .
10 The lad also told him that his mistress wished him to be ready next morning at nine o'clock , when she would come for him with the carriage , as she had promised .
11 He was greatly pleased at this , and next morning , when the time was drawing near , went out into the garden ; but the little fair-haired lad took a big pin out of his pocket , and stuck it into the back of the Irishman 's coat without his noticing it , whereupon he fell sound asleep .
12 Before long the Princess came with the carriage and four horses , and asked the lad whether his master was awake .
13 He said that he was n't .
14 ` It is bad for him , ' said she , ` when the night is not long enough for him to sleep .
15 Tell him that if he does n't meet me at this time to-morrow it is not likely that he will ever see me again all his life . '
16 As soon as she was gone the lad took the pin out of his master 's coat , who instantly awoke .
17 The first word he said to the lad was , ` Have you seen her ? '
18 ` Yes , ' said he , ` and she bade me tell you that if you do n't meet her at nine o'clock to-morrow you will never see her again . '
19 He was very sorry when he heard this , and could not understand why the sleep should have fallen upon him just when she was coming .
20 He decided , however , to go early to bed that night , in order to rise in time nest morning , and so he did .
21 When it was getting near nine o'clock he went out to the XXXXX to wait till she came , and the fair-haired lad along with him ; but as soon as the lad got the chance he stuck the pin into his master 's coat again and he fell asleep as before .	garden		bed|coat|garden|horses|lad|master|pin|sleep|spell|time

1 He put aside his bow , and went neither to fight nor to hunt , but from sunrise to sunset he sat by the place where she was laid , thinking of his happiness that was buried there .
2 At last , after many days , a light seemed to come to him out of the darkness .
3 He remembered having heard from the old , old people of the tribe , that there was a path that led to the Land of Souls -- that if you sought carefully you could find it .
4 So the next morning he got up early , and put some food in his pouch and slung an extra skin over his shoulders , for he knew not how long his journey would take , nor what sort of country he would have to go through .
5 Only one thing he knew , that if the path was there , he would find it .
6 At first he was puzzled , as there seemed no reason he should go in one direction more than another .
7 Then all at once he thought he had heard one of the old men say that the Land of Souls lay to the south , and so , filled with new hope and courage , he set his face southwards .
8 For many , many miles the country looked the same as it did round his own home .
9 The forests , the hills , and the rivers all seemed exactly like the ones he had left .
10 The only thing that was different was the snow , which had lain thick upon the hills and trees when he started , but grew less and less the farther he went south , till it disappeared altogether .
11 Soon the trees put forth their buds , and flowers sprang up under his feet , and instead of thick clouds there was blue sky over his head , and everywhere the birds were singing .
12 Then he knew that he was in the right road .
13 The thought that he should soon behold his lost bride made his heart beat for joy , and he sped along lightly and swiftly .
14 Now his way led through a dark wood , and then over some steep cliffs , and on the top of these he found a hut or wigwam .
15 An old man clothed in skins , and holding a staff in his hand , stood in the doorway ; and he said to the young chief who was beginning to tell his story , ' I was waiting for you , wherefore you have come I know .
16 It is but a short while since she whom you seek was here .
17 Rest in my hut , as she also rested , and I will tell you what you ask , and whither you should go . '
18 On hearing these words , the young man entered the hut , but his heart was too eager within him to suffer him to rest , and when he arose , the old man rose too , and stood with him at the door .
19 ` Look , ' he said , ` at the water which lies far out yonder , and the plains which stretch beyond .
20 That is the Land of Souls , but no man enters it without leaving his body behind him .
21 So , lay down your body here ; your bow and arrows , your XXXXX and your dog .	skin		bride|cliffs|clouds|door|path|people|rivers|shoulders|skin|snow

1 Now the Lord whose sheep the Herd-boy looked after had a very lovely daughter , who always smiled and nodded to the youth when she walked with her father in his fields .
2 For a long time the Herd-boy had made up his mind to prepare a surprise for this beautiful creature on her birthday .
3 So when the day approached he put on his invisible belt , took a sack of gold pieces with him , and slipping into her room in the middle of the night , he placed the bag of gold beside her bed and returned to his sheep .
4 The girl 's joy was great , and so was her parents ' next day when they found the sack full of gold pieces .
5 The Herd-boy was so pleased to think what pleasure he had given that the next night he placed another bag of gold beside the girl 's bed .
6 And this he continued to do for seven nights , and the girl and her parents made up their minds that it must be a good Fairy who brought the gold every night .
7 But one night they determined to watch , and see from their hiding place who the bringer of the sack of gold really was .
8 On the eighth night a fearful storm of wind and rain came on while the Herd-boy was on his way to bring the beautiful girl another bag of gold .
9 Then for the first time he noticed , just as he reached his master 's house , that he had forgotten the belt which made him invisible .
10 He did n't like the idea of going back to his hut in the wind and wet , so he just stepped as he was into the girl 's room , laid the sack of gold beside her , and was turning to leave the room , when his master confronted him and said , ` You young rogue , so you were going to steal the gold that a good Fairy brings every night , were you ? '
11 The Herd-boy was so taken aback by his words , that he stood trembling before him , and did not dare to explain his presence .
12 Then his master spoke .
13 ` As you have hitherto always behaved well in my service I will not send you to prison ; but leave your place instantly and never let me see your face again . '
14 So the Herd-boy went back to his hut , and taking his loaf and belt with him , he went to the nearest town .
15 There he bought himself some fine clothes , and a beautiful coach with four horses , hired two servants , and drove back to his master .
16 You may imagine how astonished he was to see his Herd-boy returning to him in this manner !
17 Then the youth told him of the piece of good luck that had befallen him , and asked him for the hand of his beautiful daughter .
18 This was readily granted , and the two lived in peace and happiness to the end of their lives .
19 THE INVISIBLE PRINCE Once upon a time there lived a Fairy who had power over the earth , the sea , fire , and the air ; and this Fairy had four sons .
20 The eldest , who was quick and lively , with a vivid imagination , she made Lord of Fire , which was in her opinion the noblest of all the elements .
21 To the second son , whose wisdom and prudence made amends for his being rather dull , she gave the government of the XXXXX .	earth		Lord|air|clothes|earth|eldest|happiness|power|prison|room|youth

1 One day the Crab said to the fisherman 's wife , ` Go to the King and tell him I wish to marry his younger daughter . '
2 The old woman went accordingly , and laid the matter before the King , who laughed a little at the notion of his daughter marrying a crab , but did not decline the proposal altogether , because he was a prudent monarch , and knew that the Crab was likely to be a prince in disguise .
3 He said , therefore , to the fisherman 's wife , ` Go , old woman , and tell the Crab I will give him my daughter if by to-morrow morning he can build a wall in front of my castle much higher than my tower , upon which all the flowers of the world must grow and bloom . '
4 The fisherman 's wife went home and gave this message .
5 Then the Crab gave her a golden rod , and said , ` Go and strike with this rod three times upon the ground on the place which the King showed you , and to-morrow morning the wall will be there . '
6 The old woman did so and went away again .
7 The next morning , when the King awoke , what do you think he saw ?
8 The wall stood there before his eyes , exactly as he had bespoken it !
9 Then the old woman went back to the King and said to him , ` Your Majesty 's orders have been fulfilled . '
10 ` That is all very well , ' said the King , ` but I can not give away my daughter until there stands in front of my palace a garden in which there are three fountains , of which the first must play gold , the second diamonds , and the third brilliants . '
11 So the old woman had to strike again three times upon the ground with the rod , and the next morning the garden was there .
12 The King now gave his consent , and the wedding was fixed for the very next day .
13 Then the Crab said to the old fisherman , ` Now take this rod ; go and knock with it on a certain mountain ; then a black man -LRB- 6 -RRB- will come out and ask you what you wish for .
14 Answer him thus : '' Your master , the King , has sent me to tell you that you must send him his golden garment that is like the sun . ''
15 Make him give you , besides , the queenly robes of gold and precious stones which are like the flowery meadows , and bring them both to me .
16 And bring me also the golden cushion . '
17 -LRB- 6 -RRB- Ein Mohr .
18 The old man went and did his errand .
19 When he had brought the precious robes , the Crab put on the golden garment and then crept upon the golden cushion , and in this way the fisherman carried him to the castle , where the Crab presented the other garment to his bride .
20 Now the ceremony took place , and when the married pair were alone together the Crab made himself known to his young wife , and told her how he was the son of the greatest king in the world , and how he was enchanted , so that he became a crab by day and was a man only at night ; and he could also change himself into an eagle as often as he wished .
21 No sooner had he said this than he shook himself , and immediately became a handsome youth , but the next XXXXX he was forced to creep back again into his crab-shell .	morning		Majesty|bride|cushion|fountains|garment|gold|man|morning|palace|robes

1 So saying he drew forth the miniature from under his wing .
2 The Princess 's surprise was great , but after what she had seen and heard it was impossible not to indulge in hope , for she had recognised the likeness of herself which her mother always wore .
3 The parrot , finding she was not much alarmed , told her who he was , all that her mother had promised him and the help he had already received from a Fairy who had assured him that she would give him means to transport the Princess to her mother 's arms .
4 When he found her listening attentively to him , he implored the Princess to allow him to resume his natural shape .
5 She did not speak , so he drew a feather from his wing , and she beheld before her a Prince of such surpassing beauty that it was impossible not to hope that she might owe her liberty to so charming a person .
6 Meantime the Fairy had prepared a chariot , to which she harnessed two powerful eagles ; then placing the cage , with the parrot in it , she charged the bird to conduct it to the window of the Princess 's dressing-room .
7 This was done in a few minutes , and the Princess , stepping into the chariot with the Prince , was delighted to find her parrot again .
8 As they rose through the air the Princess remarked a figure mounted on an eagle 's back flying in front of the chariot .
9 She was rather alarmed , but the Prince reassured her , telling her it was the good Fairy to whom she owed so much , and who was now conducting her in safety to her mother .
10 That same morning the King woke suddenly from a troubled sleep .
11 He had dreamt that the Princess was being carried off from him , and , transforming himself into an eagle , he flew to the palace .
12 When he failed to find her he flew into a terrible rage , and hastened home to consult his books , by which means he discovered that it was his son who had deprived him of this precious treasure .
13 Immediately he took the shape of a harpy , and , filled with rage , was determined to devour his son , and even the Princess too , if only he could overtake them .
14 He set out at full speed ; but he started too late , and was further delayed by a strong wind which the Fairy raised behind the young couple so as to baffle any pursuit .
15 You may imagine the rapture with which the Queen received the daughter she had given up for lost , as well as the amiable Prince who had rescued her .
16 The Fairy entered with them , and warned the Queen that the Wizard King would shortly arrive , infuriated by his loss , and that nothing could preserve the Prince and Princess from his rage and magic unless they were actually married .
17 The Queen hastened to inform the King her husband , and the wedding took place on the spot .
18 As the ceremony was completed the Wizard King arrived .
19 His despair at being so late bewildered him so entirely that he appeared in his natural form and attempted to sprinkle some black liquid over the bride and bridegroom , which was intended to kill them , but the Fairy stretched out her wand and the liquid dropped on the Magician himself .
20 He fell down senseless , and the Princess 's father , deeply offended at the cruel revenge which had been attempted , ordered him to be removed and locked up in prison .
21 Now as magicians lose all their power as soon as they are in XXXXX , the King felt himself much embarrassed at being thus at the mercy of those he had so greatly offended .	prison		books|bridegroom|ceremony|daughter|harpy|help|liberty|liquid|palace|prison

1 ` Why not ? '
2 answered the maiden .
3 ` Take some weeks to consider if you like , and take counsel with your own heart . '
4 And to make the time pass pleasantly , she took the youth over every part of her beautiful dwelling , and showed him all her splendid treasures .
5 But these treasures were all produced by enchantment , for the maiden could make anything she wished appear by the help of King Solomon 's signet ring ; only none of these things remained fixed ; they passed away like the wind without leaving a trace behind .
6 But the youth did not know this ; he thought they were all real .
7 One day the maiden took him into a secret chamber , where a little gold box was standing on a silver table .
8 Pointing to the box , she said , ` Here is my greatest treasure , whose like is not to be found in the whole world .
9 It is a precious gold ring .
10 When you marry me , I will give you this ring as a marriage gift , and it will make you the happiest of mortal men .
11 But in order that our love may last for ever , you must give me for the ring three drops of blood from the little finger of your left hand . '
12 When the youth heard these words a cold shudder ran over him , for he remembered that his soul was at stake .
13 He was cunning enough , however , to conceal his feelings and to make no direct answer , but he only asked the maiden , as if carelessly , what was remarkable about the ring ?
14 She answered , ` No mortal is able entirely to understand the power of this ring , because no one thoroughly understands the secret signs engraved upon it .
15 But even with my half-knowledge I can work great wonders .
16 If I put the ring upon the little finger of my left hand , then I can fly like a bird through the air wherever I wish to go .
17 If I put it on the third finger of my left hand I am invisible , and I can see everything that passes around me , though no one can see me .
18 If I put the ring upon the middle finger of my left hand , then neither fire nor water nor any sharp weapon can hurt me .
19 If I put it on the forefinger of my left hand , then I can with its help produce whatever I wish .
20 I can in a single moment build houses or anything I desire .
21 Finally , as long as I wear the ring on the thumb of my left hand , that XXXXX is so strong that it can break down rocks and walls .	hand		answer|anything|finger|forefinger|hand|time|treasures|water|weapon|wonders

1 Soon after Big Klaus came out of the church , and taking up the sack on his shoulders it seemed to him as if it had become lighter ; for the old cattle-driver was not half as heavy as Little Klaus .
2 ` How easy he is to carry now !
3 That must be because I heard part of the service . '
4 So he went to the river , which was deep and broad , threw in the sack with the old driver , and called after it , for he thought Little Klaus was inside : ` Down you go !
5 You wo n't mock me any more now ! '
6 Then he went home ; but when he came to the cross-roads , there he met Little Klaus , who was driving his cattle .
7 ` What 's this ? '
8 said Big Klaus .
9 ` Have n't I drowned you ? '
10 ` Yes , ' replied Little Klaus ; ` you threw me into the river a good half-hour ago ! '
11 ` But how did you get those splendid cattle ? '
12 asked Big Klaus .
13 ` They are sea-cattle ! '
14 said Little Klaus . '
15 I will tell you the whole story , and I thank you for having drowned me , because now I am on dry land and really rich !
16 How frightened I was when I was in the sack !
17 How the wind whistled in my ears as you threw me from the bridge into the cold water !
18 I sank at once to the bottom ; but I did not hurt myself for underneath was growing the most beautiful soft grass .
19 I fell on this , and immediately the sack opened ; the loveliest maiden in snow-white garments , with a green garland round her wet hair , took me by the hand , and said ! ''
20 Are you Little Klaus ?
21 Here are some XXXXX for you to begin with , and a mile farther down the road there is another herd , which I will give you as a present ! ''	cattle		bottom|cattle|driver|ears|land|maiden|sack|service|shoulders|wind

1 Meantime Rosalie and the Invisible Prince had reached , hand in hand , a door of the gallery which led through a terrace into the gardens .
2 In silence they glided along , and thought themselves already safe , when a furious monster dashed itself by accident against Rosalie and the Invisible Prince , and in her fright she let go his hand .
3 No one can speak as long as he is invisible , and besides , they knew that the spirits were all around them , and at the slightest sound they would be recognised ; so all they could do was to feel about in the hope that their hands might once more meet .
4 But , alas !
5 the joy of liberty lasted but a short time .
6 The Princess , having wandered in vain up and down the forest , stopped at last on the edge of a fountain .
7 As she walked she wrote on the trees : ` If ever the Prince , my lover , comes this way , let him know that it is here I dwell , and that I sit daily on the edge of this fountain , mingling my tears with its waters . '
8 These words were read by one of the genii , who repeated them to his master .
9 The Prince of the Air , in his turn making himself invisible , was led to the fountain , and waited for Rosalie .
10 When she drew near he held out his hand , which she grasped eagerly , taking it for that of her lover ; and , seizing his opportunity , the Prince passed a cord round her arms , and throwing off his invisibility cried to his spirits to drag her into the lowest pit .
11 It was at this moment that the Invisible Prince appeared , and at the sight of the Prince of the Genii mounting into the air , holding a silken cord , he guessed instantly that he was carrying off Rosalie .
12 He felt so overwhelmed by despair that he thought for an instant of putting an end to his life .
13 ` Can I survive my misfortunes ? '
14 he cried . '
15 I fancied I had come to an end of my troubles , and now they are worse than ever .
16 What will become of me ?
17 Never can I discover the place where this monster will hide Rosalie . '
18 The unhappy youth had determined to let himself die , and indeed his sorrow alone was enough to kill him , when the thought that by means of the cabinets of the years he might find out where the Princess was imprisoned , gave him a little ray of comfort .
19 So he continued to walk on through the forest , and after some hours he arrived at the gate of a temple , guarded by two huge lions .
20 Being invisible , he was able to enter unharmed .
21 In the middle of the XXXXX was an altar , on which lay a book , and behind the altar hung a great curtain .	temple		genii|hope|master|moment|monster|place|sound|spirits|tears|temple

1 Clemantiny swept out through the porch and jerked open the door .
2 There was a moment 's silence .
3 Then Miss Salome heard her say , `` For the land 's sake !
4 Salome Whitney , come here . ''
5 What Miss Salome saw when she hurried out was a white-faced boy stretched on the doorstep at Clemantiny 's feet .
6 `` Is he dead ? ''
7 she gasped .
8 `` Dead ?
9 No , '' sniffed Clemantiny .
10 `` He 's fainted , that 's what he is .
11 Where on earth did he come from ?
12 He ai n't a Hopedale boy . ''
13 `` He must be carried right in , '' exclaimed Miss Salome in distress .
14 `` Why , he may die there .
15 He must be very ill . ''
16 `` Looks more to me as if he had fainted from sheer starvation , '' returned Clemantiny brusquely as she picked him up in her lean , muscular arms .
17 `` Why , he 's skin and bone .
18 He ai n't hardly heavier than a baby .
19 Well , this is a mysterious piece of work .
20 Where 'll I put him ? ''
21 `` Lay him on the sofa , '' said XXXXX Salome as soon as she had recovered from the horror into which Clemantiny 's starvation dictum had thrown her .	Miss		Dead|Miss|bone|boy|distress|door|doorstep|feet|land|moment

1 The cook did so , and the Six sitting round the table felt it grow very warm , and they thought this was because of their good fare ; but when the heat became still greater and they wanted to go out , but found the doors and windows fastened , then they knew that the King meant them harm and was trying to suffocate them .
2 ` But he shall not succeed , ' cried he of the little hat , ' I will make a frost come which shall make the fire ashamed and die out ! '
3 So he put his hat on straight , and at once there came such a frost that all the heat disappeared and the food on the dishes began to freeze .
4 When a couple of hours had passed , and the King thought they must be quite dead from the heat , he had the doors opened and went in himself to see .
5 But when the doors were opened , there stood all Six , alive and well , saying they were glad they could come out to warm themselves , for the great cold in the room had frozen all the food hard in the dishes .
6 Then the King went angrily to the cook , and scolded him , and asked him why he had not done what he was told .
7 But the cook answered , ` There is heat enough there ; see for yourself . '
8 Then the King saw a huge fire burning under the iron room , and understood that he could do no harm to the Six in this way .
9 The King now began again to think how he could free himself from his unwelcome guests .
10 He commanded the master to come before him , and said , ` If you will take gold , and give up your right to my daughter , you shall have as much as you like . '
11 ` Oh , yes , your Majesty , ' answered he , ` give me as much as my servant can carry , and I will give up your daughter . '
12 The King was delighted , and the man said , ' I will come and fetch it in fourteen days . '
13 Then he called all the tailors in the kingdom together , and made them sit down for fourteen days sewing at a sack .
14 When it was finished , he made the strong man who had uprooted the trees take the sack on his shoulder and go with him to the King .
15 Then the King said , ` What a powerful fellow that is , carrying that bale of linen as large as a house on his shoulder ! '
16 and he was much frightened , and thought ` What a lot of gold he will make away with ! '
17 Then he had a ton of gold brought , which sixteen of the strongest men had to carry ; but the strong man seized it with one hand , put it in the sack , saying , ` Why do n't you bring me more ?
18 That scarcely covers the bottom ! '
19 Then the King had to send again and again to fetch his treasures , which the strong man shoved into the sack , and the sack was only half full .
20 ` Bring more , ' he cried , ` these crumbs do n't fill it . '
21 So seven thousand waggons of the gold of the whole XXXXX were driven up ; these the strong man shoved into the sack , oxen and all . '	kingdom		bottom|cook|dishes|gold|harm|hat|kingdom|room|sack|treasures

1 here are the breeches !
2 Here is the coat !
3 Here the cloak ! '
4 and so on .
5 ` Spun clothes are so comfortable that one would imagine one had nothing on at all ; but that is the beauty of it ! '
6 ` Yes , ' said all the knights , but they could see nothing , for there was nothing there .
7 ` Will it please your Majesty graciously to take off your clothes , ' said the impostors , ` then we will put on the new clothes , here before the mirror . '
8 The Emperor took off all his clothes , and the impostors placed themselves before him as if they were putting on each part of his new clothes which was ready , and the Emperor turned and bent himself in front of the mirror .
9 ` How beautifully they fit !
10 How well they sit ! '
11 said everybody .
12 ` What material !
13 What colours !
14 It is a gorgeous suit ! '
15 ` They are waiting outside with the canopy which your Majesty is wont to have borne over you in the procession , ' announced the Master of the Ceremonies .
16 ` Look , I am ready , ' said the Emperor .
17 ` Does n't it sit well ! '
18 And he turned himself again to the mirror to see if his finery was on all right .
19 The chamberlains who were used to carry the train put their hands near the floor as if they were lifting up the train ; then they did as if they were holding something in the air .
20 They would not have it noticed that they could see nothing .
21 So the Emperor went along in the procession under the splendid canopy , and all the people in the streets and at the windows said , ` How matchless are the Emperor 's new XXXXX !	clothes		Master|breeches|canopy|cloak|clothes|coat|everybody|nothing|suit|train

1 He had formed no plan , and there was no reason that he should choose one path more than another .
2 His only idea was to make straight for those spots which were the favourite haunts of birds .
3 But in vain he examined all the hedges and all the thickets ; in vain he questioned everyone he met along the road .
4 The more he sought the less he found .
5 At last he came to one of the largest forests in all the world , composed entirely of cedars .
6 But in spite of the deep shadows cast by the wide-spreading branches of the trees , the grass underneath was soft and green , and covered with the rarest flowers .
7 It seemed to Saphir that this was exactly the place where the birds would choose to live , and he determined not to quit the wood until he had examined it from end to end .
8 And he did more .
9 He ordered some nets to be prepared and painted of the same colours as the bird 's plumage , thinking that we are all easily caught by what is like ourselves .
10 In this he had to help him not only the fowlers by profession , but also his attendants , who excelled in this art .
11 For a man is not a courtier unless he can do everything .
12 After searching as usual for nearly a whole day Prince Saphir began to feel overcome with thirst .
13 He was too tired to go any farther , when happily he discovered a little way off a bubbling fountain of the clearest water .
14 Being an experienced traveller , he drew from his pocket a little cup -LRB- without which no one should ever take a journey -RRB- , and was just about to dip it in the water , when a lovely little green frog , much prettier than frogs generally are , jumped into the cup .
15 Far from admiring its beauty , Saphir shook it impatiently off ; but it was no good , for quick as lightning the frog jumped back again .
16 Saphir , who was raging with thirst , was just about to shake it off anew , when the little creature fixed upon him the most beautiful eyes in the world , and said , ' I am a friend of the bird you are seeking , and when you have quenched your thirst listen to me . '
17 So the Prince drank his fill , and then , by the command of the Little Green Frog , he lay down on the grass to rest himself .
18 ` Now , ' she began , ` be sure you do exactly in every respect what I tell you .
19 First you must call together your attendants , and order them to remain in a little hamlet close by until you want them .
20 Then go , quite alone , down a road that you will find on your right hand , looking southwards .
21 This XXXXX is planted all the way with cedars of Lebanon ; and after going down it a long way you will come at last to a magnificent castle .	road		attendants|branches|everything|fill|journey|road|spite|thickets|thirst|water

1 Summer had arrived to stay .
2 On every side he heard glad voices .
3 Bumble the Bee was humming a song .
4 Best of all , Jimmy had found three beetles that very morning , and he knew that there were more if he could find them .
5 So why should n't he feel good ?
6 Jimmy had laughed at Peter Rabbit for being so anxious for Summer to arrive , but he was just as glad as Peter that she had come , although he would n't have said so for the world .
7 His sharp little eyes twinkled as he ambled along , and there was n't much that they missed .
8 As he walked he talked , quite to himself of course , because there was nobody near to hear , and this is what he was saying : `` Beetle , beetle , smooth and smug , You are nothing but a bug .
9 Bugs were made for Skunks to eat , So come out from your retreat .
10 `` Hello !
11 There 's a nice big piece of bark over there that looks as if it ought to have a dozen fat beetles under it .
12 It 's great fun to pull over pieces of bark and see fat beetles run all ways at once .
13 I 'll just have to see what is under that piece . ''
14 Jimmy tiptoed softly over to the big piece of bark , and then as he made ready to turn it over , he began again that foolish little verse .
15 `` Beetle , beetle , smooth and smug , You are nothing but a bug . ''
16 As he said the last word , he suddenly pulled the piece of bark over .
17 `` Who 's a bug ? ''
18 asked a funny voice , and it sounded rather cross .
19 Jimmy Skunk nearly tumbled over backward in surprise , and for a minute he could n't find his tongue .
20 There , instead of the fat beetles he had been so sure of , sat Old Mr. Toad , and he did n't look at all pleased .
21 `` Who 's a XXXXX ? ''	bug		Best|Summer|beetles|bug|eyes|fun|side|tongue|word|world

1 ` I 'm glad I 've seen that done , ' thought Alice .
2 ` I 've so often read in the newspapers , at the end of trials , `` There was some attempts at applause , which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court , '' and I never understood what it meant till now . '
3 ` If that 's all you know about it , you may stand down , ' continued the King . '
4 I ca n't go no lower , ' said the Hatter : ` I 'm on the floor , as it is . '
5 ` Then you may SIT down , ' the King replied .
6 Here the other guinea-pig cheered , and was suppressed .
7 ` Come , that finished the guinea-pigs ! '
8 thought Alice .
9 ` Now we shall get on better . '
10 ` I 'd rather finish my tea , ' said the Hatter , with an anxious look at the Queen , who was reading the list of singers .
11 ` You may go , ' said the King , and the Hatter hurriedly left the court , without even waiting to put his shoes on . '
12 -- and just take his head off outside , ' the Queen added to one of the officers : but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door .
13 ` Call the next witness ! '
14 said the King .
15 The next witness was the Duchess 's cook .
16 She carried the pepper-box in her hand , and Alice guessed who it was , even before she got into the court , by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once .
17 ` Give your evidence , ' said the King .
18 ` Sha n't , ' said the cook .
19 The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit , who said in a low voice , ` Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness . '
20 ` Well , if I must , I must , ' the King said , with a melancholy air , and , after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight , he said in a deep voice , ` What are tarts made of ? '
21 ` Pepper , mostly , ' said the XXXXX .	cook		Majesty|SIT|cook|evidence|head|newspapers|officers|sight|tea|way

1 He has driven game for us .
2 He has broken no word of the Law of the Jungle . ''
3 `` Also , I paid for him with a bull when he was accepted .
4 The worth of a bull is little , but Bagheera 's honor is something that he will perhaps fight for , '' said Bagheera in his gentlest voice .
5 `` A bull paid ten years ago ! ''
6 the Pack snarled .
7 `` What do we care for bones ten years old ? ''
8 `` Or for a pledge ? ''
9 said Bagheera , his white teeth bared under his lip .
10 `` Well are ye called the Free People ! ''
11 `` No man 's cub can run with the people of the jungle , '' howled Shere Khan .
12 `` Give him to me ! ''
13 `` He is our brother in all but blood , '' Akela went on , `` and ye would kill him here !
14 In truth , I have lived too long .
15 Some of ye are eaters of cattle , and of others I have heard that , under Shere Khan 's teaching , ye go by dark night and snatch children from the villager 's doorstep .
16 Therefore I know ye to be cowards , and it is to cowards I speak .
17 It is certain that I must die , and my life is of no worth , or I would offer that in the man-cub 's place .
18 But for the sake of the Honor of the Pack , -- a little matter that by being without a leader ye have forgotten , -- I promise that if ye let the man-cub go to his own place , I will not , when my time comes to die , bare one tooth against ye .
19 I will die without fighting .
20 That will at least save the Pack three lives .
21 More I can not do ; but if ye will , I can save ye the shame that comes of killing a brother against whom there is no fault -- a brother spoken for and bought into the Pack according to the Law of the XXXXX . ''	Jungle		Jungle|blood|bull|go|honor|leader|life|lip|matter|truth

1 To talk of the soul of a money-lender in a beast that never had the courage of a jackal is child 's talk . ''
2 Buldeo was speechless with surprise for a moment , and the head-man stared .
3 `` Oho !
4 It is the jungle brat , is it ? ''
5 said Buldeo .
6 `` If thou art so wise , better bring his hide to Khanhiwara , for the Government has set a hundred rupees on his life .
7 Better still , talk not when thy elders speak . ''
8 Mowgli rose to go .
9 `` All the evening I have lain here listening , '' he called back over his shoulder , `` and , except once or twice , Buldeo has not said one word of truth concerning the jungle , which is at his very doors .
10 How , then , shall I believe the tales of ghosts and gods and goblins which he says he has seen ? ''
11 `` It is full time that boy went to herding , '' said the head-man , while Buldeo puffed and snorted at Mowgli 's impertinence .
12 The custom of most Indian villages is for a few boys to take the cattle and buffaloes out to graze in the early morning , and bring them back at night .
13 The very cattle that would trample a white man to death allow themselves to be banged and bullied and shouted at by children that hardly come up to their noses .
14 So long as the boys keep with the herds they are safe , for not even the tiger will charge a mob of cattle .
15 But if they straggle to pick flowers or hunt lizards , they are sometimes carried off .
16 Mowgli went through the village street in the dawn , sitting on the back of Rama , the great herd bull .
17 The slaty-blue buffaloes , with their long , backward-sweeping horns and savage eyes , rose out their byres , one by one , and followed him , and Mowgli made it very clear to the children with him that he was the master .
18 He beat the buffaloes with a long , polished bamboo , and told Kamya , one of the boys , to graze the cattle by themselves , while he went on with the buffaloes , and to be very careful not to stray away from the herd .
19 An Indian grazing ground is all rocks and scrub and tussocks and little ravines , among which the herds scatter and disappear .
20 The buffaloes generally keep to the pools and muddy places , where they lie wallowing or basking in the warm mud for hours .
21 Mowgli drove them on to the edge of the plain where the Waingunga came out of the XXXXX ; then he dropped from Rama 's neck , trotted off to a bamboo clump , and found Gray Brother .	jungle		buffaloes|children|herd|herds|jungle|mud|pools|soul|talk|tiger

1 On the threshold he was greeted by a servant with the news that his wife had just given birth to a boy .
2 The poor miller was much horrified by these tidings , and went in to his wife with a heavy heart to tell her and his relations of the fatal bargain he had just struck with the nixy . '
3 I would gladly give up all the good fortune she promised me , ' he said , ` if I could only save my child . '
4 But no one could think of any advice to give him , beyond taking care that the child never went near the mill-pond .
5 So the boy throve and grew big , and in the meantime all prospered with the miller , and in a few years he was richer than he had ever been before .
6 But all the same he did not enjoy his good fortune , for he could not forget his compact with the nixy , and he knew that sooner or later she would demand his fulfilment of it .
7 But year after year went by , and the boy grew up and became a great hunter , and the lord of the land took him into his service , for he was as smart and bold a hunter as you would wish to see .
8 In a short time he married a pretty young wife , and lived with her in great peace and happiness .
9 One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field .
10 The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
11 Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid .
12 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
13 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves .
14 When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew very anxious , and when his game bag was found close to the mill-pond she guessed at once what had befallen him .
15 She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing .
16 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
17 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
18 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
19 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
20 The hunter 's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .
21 Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon , but it passed at last , and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond , combed her black hair with a golden XXXXX , and when she had finished , placed the comb on the bank ; then she watched the water impatiently .	comb		bargain|birth|comb|dream|grief|meadow|news|peace|relations|threshold

1 And we moved .
2 Poor Aunt !
3 Mr. Shelmardine came bravely on .
4 I felt my heart beating to my very finger tips .
5 He halted by the fragment of an old stranded boat .
6 Aunt had turned her back on him .
7 I ventured on a look .
8 He lifted his hat with a twinkle in his eye .
9 Just then Aunt said , icily : `` We will go home , Marguer_ite .
10 That creature evidently intends to persist in his intrusion . ''
11 Home we came accordingly .
12 This morning he signalled across : `` Letter from Connie .
13 Message for you .
14 I mean to deliver it personally .
15 Do you ever go to church ? ''
16 Now , I do go regularly to church at home .
17 But Aunt Martha and Mrs. Saxby are both such rigid church people that they would not darken the doors of the Methodist church at Plover Sands for any consideration .
18 Needless to say , I am not allowed to go either .
19 But it was impossible to make this long explanation , so I merely replied : `` Not here . ''
20 `` Will you not go tomorrow morning ? ''
21 `` XXXXX will not let me . ''	Aunt		Aunt|Mrs.|back|boat|church|eye|fragment|hat|heart|morning

1 If she managed to get across it , they must throw the comb behind them and run for their lives , for where the comb fell a dense forest would start up , which would delay the witch so long that they would be able to get safely away .
2 The cat had scarcely finished speaking when the witch returned to see if the children had fulfilled their tasks .
3 ` Well , you have done well enough for to-day , ' she grumbled ; ` but to-morrow you 'll have something more difficult to do , and if you do n't do it well , you pampered brats , straight into the oven you go . '
4 Half-dead with fright , and trembling in every limb , the poor children lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dared not close their eyes , and scarcely ventured to breathe .
5 In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips .
6 Then the witch left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood .
7 As soon as she had gone out of sight the children took the comb and the handkerchief , and , taking one another by the hand , they started and ran , and ran , and ran .
8 And first they met the watch-dog , who was going to leap on them and tear them to pieces ; but they threw the remains of their bread to him , and he ate them and wagged his tail .
9 Then they were hindered by the birch-trees , whose branches almost put their eyes out .
10 But the little sister tied the twigs together with a piece of ribbon , and they got past safely , and , after running through the wood , came out on to the open fields .
11 In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen and tangling the threads as it wove .
12 And the witch returned to see how the children were getting on ; and she crept up to the window , and whispered : ` Are you weaving , my little dear ? '
13 ` Yes , granny , I am weaving , ' answered the cat .
14 When the witch saw that the children had escaped her , she was furious , and , hitting the cat with a porringer , she said : ` Why did you let the children leave the hut ?
15 Why did you not scratch their eyes out ? '
16 But the cat curled up its tail and put its back up , and answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never even threw me a bone , but the dear children gave me their own piece of ham . '
17 Then the witch was furious with the watch-dog and with the birch-trees , because they had let the children pass .
18 But the dog answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never gave me so much as a hard crust , but the dear children gave me their own loaf of bread . '
19 And the birch rustled its leaves , and said : ' I have served you longer than I can say , and you never tied a bit of twine even round my branches ; and the dear children bound them up with their brightest ribbons . '
20 So the witch saw there was no help to be got from her old servants , and that the best thing she could do was to mount on her broom and set off in pursuit of the children .
21 And as the XXXXX ran they heard the sound of the broom sweeping the ground close behind them , so instantly they threw the handkerchief down over their shoulder , and in a moment a deep , broad river flowed behind them .	children		bone|children|comb|crust|forest|fright|hut|linen|speaking|threads

1 She felt very curious to know what it was all about , and crept a little way out of the wood to listen .
2 The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter , nearly as large as himself , and this he handed over to the other , saying , in a solemn tone , ` For the Duchess .
3 An invitation from the Queen to play croquet . '
4 The Frog-Footman repeated , in the same solemn tone , only changing the order of the words a little , ` From the Queen .
5 An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet . '
6 Then they both bowed low , and their curls got entangled together .
7 Alice laughed so much at this , that she had to run back into the wood for fear of their hearing her ; and when she next peeped out the Fish-Footman was gone , and the other was sitting on the ground near the door , staring stupidly up into the sky .
8 Alice went timidly up to the door , and knocked .
9 ` There 's no sort of use in knocking , ' said the Footman , ` and that for two reasons .
10 First , because I 'm on the same side of the door as you are ; secondly , because they 're making such a noise inside , no one could possibly hear you . '
11 And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise going on within -- a constant howling and sneezing , and every now and then a great crash , as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces .
12 ` Please , then , ' said Alice , ` how am I to get in ? '
13 ` There might be some sense in your knocking , ' the Footman went on without attending to her , ` if we had the door between us .
14 For instance , if you were INSIDE , you might knock , and I could let you out , you know . '
15 He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking , and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil .
16 ` But perhaps he ca n't help it , ' she said to herself ; ` his eyes are so VERY nearly at the top of his head .
17 But at any rate he might answer questions .
18 -- How am I to get in ? '
19 she repeated , aloud . '
20 I shall sit here , ' the Footman remarked , 'till tomorrow -- ' At this moment the door of the house opened , and a large plate came skimming out , straight at the Footman 's head : it just grazed his nose , and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him . '
21 -- or next day , maybe , ' the Footman continued in the same XXXXX , exactly as if nothing had happened .	tone		dish|head|invitation|kettle|one|order|rate|side|sneezing|tone

1 So the old woman continued , ` The most beautiful woman in the whole world is the daughter of the Queen of the Flowers , who has been captured by a dragon .
2 If you wish to marry her , you must first set her free , and this I will help you to do .
3 I will give you this little bell : if you ring it once , the King of the Eagles will appear ; if you ring it twice , the King of the Foxes will come to you ; and if you ring it three times , you will see the King of the Fishes by your side .
4 These will help you if you are in any difficulty .
5 Now farewell , and heaven prosper your undertaking . '
6 She handed him the little bell , and there disappeared hut and all , as though the earth had swallowed her up .
7 Then it dawned on the Prince that he had been speaking to a good fairy , and putting the little bell carefully in his pocket , he rode home and told his father that he meant to set the daughter of the Flower Queen free , and intended setting out on the following day into the wide world in search of the maid .
8 So the next morning the Prince mounted his fine horse and left his home .
9 He had roamed round the world for a whole year , and his horse had died of exhaustion , while he himself had suffered much from want and misery , but still he had come on no trace of her he was in search of .
10 At last one day he came to a hut , in front of which sat a very old man .
11 The Prince asked him , ` Do you not know where the Dragon lives who keeps the daughter of the Flower Queen prisoner ? '
12 ` No , I do not , ' answered the old man .
13 ` But if you go straight along this road for a year , you will reach a hut where my father lives , and possibly he may be able to tell you . '
14 The Prince thanked him for his information , and continued his journey for a whole year along the same road , and at the end of it came to the little hut , where he found a very old man .
15 He asked him the same question , and the old man answered , ` No , I do not know where the Dragon lives .
16 But go straight along this road for another year , and you will come to a hut in which my father lives .
17 I know he can tell you . '
18 And so the Prince wandered on for another year , always on the same road , and at last reached the hut where he found the third old man .
19 He put the same question to him as he had put to his son and grandson ; but this time the old man answered , ` The Dragon lives up there on the mountain , and he has just begun his year of sleep .
20 For one whole year he is always awake , and the next he sleeps .
21 But if you wish to see the Flower Queen 's daughter go up the second mountain : the XXXXX 's old mother lives there , and she has a ball every night , to which the Flower Queen 's daughter goes regularly . '	Dragon		Dragon|Flower|day|difficulty|front|horse|man|misery|round|time

1 Two regiments soon overtook them , and called to them , ` You are prisoners !
2 lay down the sack of gold or you shall be cut down . '
3 ` What do you say ? '
4 said the blower , ` we are prisoners ?
5 Before that , you shall dance in the air ! '
6 And he held one nostril and blew with the other at the two regiments ; they were separated and blown away in the blue sky over the mountains , one this way , and the other that .
7 A sergeant-major cried for mercy , saying he had nine wounds , and was a brave fellow , and did not deserve this disgrace .
8 So the blower let him off , and he came down without hurt .
9 Then he said to him , ` Now go home to the King , and say that if he sends any more cavalry I will blow them all into the air . '
10 When the King received the message , he said , ` Let the fellows go ; they are bewitched . '
11 Then the Six brought the treasure home , shared it among themselves , and lived contentedly till the end of their days .
12 THE WIZARD KING -LRB- 14 -RRB- -LRB- 14 -RRB- From Les fees illustres .
13 In very ancient times there lived a King , whose power lay not only in the vast extent of his dominions , but also in the magic secrets of which he was master .
14 After spending the greater part of his early youth in pleasure , he met a Princess of such remarkable beauty that he at once asked her hand in marriage , and , having obtained it , considered himself the happiest of men .
15 After a year 's time a son was born , worthy in every way of such distinguished parents , and much admired by the whole Court .
16 As soon as the Queen thought him strong enough for a journey she set out with him secretly to visit her Fairy godmother .
17 I said secretly , because the Fairy had warned the Queen that the King was a magician ; and as from time immemorial there had been a standing feud between the Fairies and the Wizards , he might not have approved of his wife 's visit .
18 The Fairy godmother , who took the deepest interest in all the Queen 's concerns , and who was much pleased with the little Prince , endowed him with the power of pleasing everybody from his cradle , as well as with a wonderful ease in learning everything which could help to make him a perfectly accomplished Prince .
19 Accordingly , to the delight of his teachers , he made the most rapid progress in his education , constantly surpassing everyone 's expectations .
20 Before he was many years old , however , he had the great sorrow of losing his mother , whose last words were to advise him never to undertake anything of importance without consulting the Fairy under whose protection she had placed him .
21 The Prince 's grief at the death of his XXXXX was great , but it was nothing compared to that of the King , his father , who was quite inconsolable for the loss of his dear wife .	mother		air|expectations|hurt|interest|journey|mother|regiments|secrets|time|way

1 The Queen 's decision was that the King should make a big grave-mound for her brother , and put Hadvor into it beside him .
2 Olof knew all the plans of the Queen , and went to tell the Princess what had been done , whereupon Hadvor earnestly entreated her to tell her what to do .
3 ` First and foremost , ' said Olof , ` you must get a wide cloak to wear over your other clothes , when you are put into the mound .
4 The Giant 's ghost will walk after you are both left together in there , and he will have two dogs along with him .
5 He will ask you to cut pieces out of his legs to give to the dogs , but that you must not promise to do unless he tells you where Hermod has gone to , and tells you how to find him .
6 He will then let you stand on his shoulders , so as to get out of the mound ; but he means to cheat you all the same , and will catch you by the cloak to pull you back again ; but you must take care to have the cloak loose on your shoulders , so that he will only get hold of that . '
7 The mound was all ready now , and the Giant laid in it , and into it Hadvor also had to go without being allowed to make any defence .
8 After they were both left there everything happened just as Olof had said .
9 The prince became a Giant again , and asked Hadvor to cut the pieces out of his legs for the dogs ; but she refused until he told her that Hermod was in a desert island , which she could not reach unless she took the skin off the soles of his feet and made shoes out of that ; with these shoes she could travel both on land and sea .
10 This Hadvor now did , and the Giant then let her get up on his shoulders to get out of the mound .
11 As she sprang out he caught hold of her cloak ; but she had taken care to let it lie loose on her shoulders , and so escaped .
12 She now made her way down to the sea , to where she knew there was the shortest distance over to the island in which Hermod was .
13 This strait she easily crossed , for the shoes kept her up .
14 On reaching the island she found a sandy beach all along by the sea , and high cliffs above .
15 Nor could she see any way to get up these , and so , being both sad at heart and tired with the long journey , she lay down and fell asleep .
16 As she slept she dreamed that a tall woman came to her and said , ' I know that you are Princess Hadvor , and are searching for Hermod .
17 He is on this island ; but it will be hard for you to get to him if you have no one to help you , for you can not climb the cliffs by your own strength .
18 I have therefore let down a rope , by which you will be able to climb up ; and as the island is so large that you might not find Hermod 's dwelling-place so easily , I lay down this clew beside you .
19 You need only hold the end of the thread , and the clew will run on before and show you the way .
20 I also lay this belt beside you , to put on when you awaken ; it will keep you from growing faint with hunger . '
21 The XXXXX now disappeared , and Hadvor woke , and saw that all her dream had been true .	woman		cloak|defence|dogs|journey|mound|strait|strength|thread|whereupon|woman

1 Then Martin summoned the twelve youths , spoke to them , saying , ` Build up my castle again , and join it to the King 's Palace with a crystal bridge ; do not forget the trees with the golden and silver apples , and with the birds of Paradise in the branches ; and put back the church with the five cupolas , and let the bells ring out , summoning the people from the four corners of the kingdom .
2 And one thing more : bring back my faithless wife , and lead her into the women 's chamber . '
3 And it was all done as he commanded , and , leaving the Starvation Tower , he took the King , his father-in-law , by the arm , and led him into the new palace , where the Princess sat in fear and trembling , awaiting her death .
4 And Martin spoke to the King , saying , ` King and royal father , I have suffered much at the hands of your daughter .
5 What punishment shall be dealt to her ? '
6 Then the mild King answered : ` Beloved Prince and son-in-law , if you love me , let your anger be turned to grace -- forgive my daughter , and restore her to your heart and favour . '
7 And Martin 's heart was softened and he forgave his wife , and they lived happily together ever after .
8 And his old mother came and lived with him , and he never parted with Schurka and Waska ; and I need hardly tell you that he never again let the ring out of his possession .
9 THE FLOWER QUEEN 'S DAUGHTER -LRB- 23 -RRB- -LRB- 23 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer .
10 Von Wliolocki .
11 A young Prince was riding one day through a meadow that stretched for miles in front of him , when he came to a deep open ditch .
12 He was turning aside to avoid it , when he heard the sound of someone crying in the ditch .
13 He dismounted from his horse , and stepped along in the direction the sound came from .
14 To his astonishment he found an old woman , who begged him to help her out of the ditch .
15 The Prince bent down and lifted her out of her living grave , asking her at the same time how she had managed to get there .
16 ` My son , ' answered the old woman , ' I am a very poor woman , and soon after midnight I set out for the neighbouring town in order to sell my eggs in the market on the following morning ; but I lost my way in the dark , and fell into this deep ditch , where I might have remained for ever but for your kindness . '
17 Then the Prince said to her , ` You can hardly walk ; I will put you on my horse and lead you home .
18 Where do you live ? '
19 ` Over there , at the edge of the forest in the little hut you see in the distance , ' replied the old woman .
20 The Prince lifted her on to his horse , and soon they reached the hut , where the old woman got down , and turning to the Prince said , ` Just wait a moment , and I will give you something . '
21 And she disappeared into her hut , but returned very soon and said , ` You are a mighty Prince , but at the same time you have a kind XXXXX , which deserves to be rewarded .	heart		anger|astonishment|ditch|edge|heart|hut|meadow|mother|son-in-law|thing

1 He had not recognized anyone all day , but he knew his wife .
2 `` Emily ! ''
3 he whispered .
4 Emily drew his head close to her face and kissed his lips passionately .
5 `` Stephen , I 've come back to you .
6 Forgive me -- forgive me -- say that you forgive me . ''
7 `` It 's all right , my girl , '' he said feebly .
8 She buried her face in the pillow beside his with a sob .
9 In the wan , grey light of the autumn dawn the old doctor came to the bedside and lifted Emily to her feet .
10 She had not stirred the whole night .
11 Now she raised her white face with dumb pleading in her eyes .
12 The doctor glanced at the sleeping form on the bed .
13 `` Your husband will live , Mrs. Fair , '' he said gently .
14 `` I think your coming saved him .
15 His joy turned the ebbing tide in favour of life . ''
16 `` Thank God ! ''
17 said Emily .
18 And for the first time in her life her beautiful voice trembled .
19 Min The morning sun hung , a red , lustreless ball , in the dull grey sky .
20 A light snow had fallen in the night and the landscape , crossed by spider-like trails of fences , was as white and lifeless as if wrapped in a shroud .
21 A young man was driving down the road to Rykman 's Corner ; the youthful face visible above the greatcoat was thoughtful and refined , the XXXXX deep blue and peculiarly beautiful , the mouth firm yet sensitive .	eyes		God|bed|eyes|form|girl|husband|landscape|life|light|wife

1 Message for you .
2 I mean to deliver it personally .
3 Do you ever go to church ? ''
4 Now , I do go regularly to church at home .
5 But Aunt Martha and Mrs. Saxby are both such rigid church people that they would not darken the doors of the Methodist church at Plover Sands for any consideration .
6 Needless to say , I am not allowed to go either .
7 But it was impossible to make this long explanation , so I merely replied : `` Not here . ''
8 `` Will you not go tomorrow morning ? ''
9 `` Aunt will not let me . ''
10 `` Coax her . ''
11 `` Coaxing never has any effect on her . ''
12 `` Would she relent if Mrs. Allardyce were to call for you ? ''
13 Now , I have been cautiously sounding Aunt about Mrs. Allardyce , and I have discovered that she disapproves of her .
14 So I said : `` It would be useless .
15 I will ask Aunt if I may go , but I feel almost sure that she will not consent . ''
16 This evening , when Aunt was in an unusually genial mood , I plucked up heart of grace and asked her .
17 `` Marguer_ite , '' she said impressively , `` you know that I do not attend church here . ''
18 `` But , Aunt , '' I persisted , quakingly , `` could n't I go alone ?
19 It is not very far -- and I will be very careful . ''
20 Aunt merely gave me a look that said about forty distinct and separate things , and I was turning away in despair when Mrs. Saxby -- bless her heart -- said : `` I really think it would be no harm to let the child go . ''
21 As XXXXX attaches great importance to Mrs. Saxby 's opinion , she looked at me relentingly and said : `` Well , I will think it over and let you know in the morning , Marguer_ite . ''	Aunt		Aunt|Message|child|church|despair|evening|explanation|harm|heart|things

1 Then Ferko buried his face in the ground till his eyes were damp with dewdrops , and in a moment he saw clearer than he had ever done in his life before .
2 The moon was shining brightly , and lighted him to the lake where he could bathe his poor broken legs .
3 Then Ferko crawled to the edge of the lake and dipped his limbs in the water .
4 No sooner had he done so than his legs felt as sound and strong as they had been before , and Ferko thanked the kind fate that had led him to the hill where he had overheard the ravens ' conversation .
5 He filled a bottle with the healing water , and then continued his journey in the best of spirits .
6 He had not gone far before he met a wolf , who was limping disconsolately along on three legs , and who on perceiving Ferko began to howl dismally .
7 ` My good friend , ' said the youth , ` be of good cheer , for I can soon heal your leg , ' and with these words he poured some of the precious water over the wolf 's paw , and in a minute the animal was springing about sound and well on all fours .
8 The grateful creature thanked his benefactor warmly , and promised Ferko to do him a good turn if he should ever need it .
9 Ferko continued his way till he came to a ploughed field .
10 Here he noticed a little mouse creeping wearily along on its hind paws , for its front paws had both been broken in a trap .
11 Ferko felt so sorry for the little beast that he spoke to it in the most friendly manner , and washed its small paws with the healing water .
12 In a moment the mouse was sound and whole , and after thanking the kind physician it scampered away over the ploughed furrows .
13 Ferko again proceeded on his journey , but he had n't gone far before a queen bee flew against him , trailing one wing behind her , which had been cruelly torn in two by a big bird .
14 Ferko was no less willing to help her than he had been to help the wolf and the mouse , so he poured some healing drops over the wounded wing .
15 On the spot the queen bee was cured , and turning to Ferko she said , ' I am most grateful for your kindness , and shall reward you some day . '
16 And with these words she flew away humming , gaily .
17 Then Ferko wandered on for many a long day , and at length reached a strange kingdom .
18 Here , he thought to himself , he might as well go straight to the palace and offer his services to the King of the country , for he had heard that the King 's daughter was as beautiful as the day .
19 So he went to the royal palace , and as he entered the door the first people he saw were his two brothers who had so shamefully ill-treated him .
20 They had managed to obtain places in the King 's service , and when they recognised Ferko with his eyes and legs sound and well they were frightened to death , for they feared he would tell the King of their conduct , and that they would be hung .
21 No sooner had Ferko entered the palace than all XXXXX were turned on the handsome youth , and the King 's daughter herself was lost in admiration , for she had never seen anyone so handsome in her life before .	eyes		country|day|dewdrops|door|eyes|kingdom|life|moon|people|youth

1 I shall indeed be sea-sick now .
2 I am breaking ! '
3 CHAPTER I. Down the Rabbit-Hole Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank , and of having nothing to do : once or twice she had peeped into the book her sister was reading , but it had no pictures or conversations in it , ` and what is the use of a book , ' thought Alice ` without pictures or conversation ? '
4 So she was considering in her own mind -LRB- as well as she could , for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid -RRB- , whether the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies , when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her .
5 There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that ; nor did Alice think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself , ` Oh dear !
6 Oh dear !
7 I shall be late ! '
8 -LRB- when she thought it over afterwards , it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this , but at the time it all seemed quite natural -RRB- ; but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-POCKET , and looked at it , and then hurried on , Alice started to her feet , for it flashed across her mind that she had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket , or a watch to take out of it , and burning with curiosity , she ran across the field after it , and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge .
9 In another moment down went Alice after it , never once considering how in the world she was to get out again .
10 The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way , and then dipped suddenly down , so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep well .
11 Either the well was very deep , or she fell very slowly , for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was going to happen next .
12 First , she tried to look down and make out what she was coming to , but it was too dark to see anything ; then she looked at the sides of the well , and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves ; here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs .
13 She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed ; it was labelled ` ORANGE MARMALADE ' , but to her great disappointment it was empty : she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody , so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it .
14 ` Well ! '
15 thought Alice to herself , ` after such a fall as this , I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs !
16 How brave they 'll all think me at home !
17 Why , I would n't say anything about it , even if I fell off the top of the house ! '
18 -LRB- Which was very likely true . -RRB-
19 Down , down , down .
20 Would the fall NEVER come to an end ! '
21 I wonder how many miles I 've fallen by this XXXXX ? '	time		Rabbit|anything|day|feel|shelves|sides|stairs|time|top|tunnel

1 She told him he must build a castle on the other side of the lake , made of nothing but gold , silver , and precious stones , and unless he could accomplish this within an hour , the most frightful doom awaited him .
2 The Prince heard her words without anxiety , so entirely did he rely on the help of his black friend .
3 Full of hope he hurried across the bridge , and recognised at once the spot where the castle was to stand , for spades , hammers , axes , and every other building implement lay scattered on the ground ready for the workman 's hand , but of gold , silver , and precious stones there was not a sign .
4 But before the Prince had time to feel despondent the black girl beckoned to him in the distance from behind a rock , where she had hidden herself for fear her mother should catch sight of her .
5 Full of joy the youth hurried towards her , and begged her aid and counsel in the new piece of work he had been given to do .
6 But this time the Fairy had watched the Prince 's movements from her window , and she saw him hiding himself behind the rock with her daughter .
7 She uttered a piercing shriek so that the mountains re-echoed with the sound of it , and the terrified pair had hardly dared to look out from their hiding-place when the enraged woman , with her dress and hair flying in the wind , hurried over the bridge of clouds .
8 The Prince at once gave himself up for lost , but the girl told him to be of good courage and to follow her as quickly as he could .
9 But before they left their shelter she broke off a little bit of the rock , spoke some magic words over it , and threw it in the direction her mother was coming from .
10 In a moment a glittering palace arose before the eyes of the Fairy which blinded her with its dazzling splendour , and with its many doors and passages prevented her for some time from finding her way out of it .
11 In the meantime the black girl hurried on with the Prince , hastening to reach the river , where once on the other side they would for ever be out of the wicked Fairy 's power .
12 But before they had accomplished half the way they heard again the rustle of her garments and her muttered curses pursuing them closely .
13 The Prince was terrified ; he dared not look back , and he felt his strength giving way .
14 But before he had time to despair the girl uttered some more magic words , and immediately she herself was changed into a pond , and the Prince into a duck swimming on its surface .
15 When the Fairy saw this her rage knew no bounds , and she used all her magic wits to make the pond disappear ; she caused a hill of sand to arise at her feet , meaning it to dry up the water at once .
16 But the sand hill only drove the pond a little farther away , and its waters seemed to increase instead of diminishing .
17 When the old woman saw that the powers of her magic were of so little avail , she had recourse to cunning .
18 She threw a lot of gold nuts into the pond , hoping in this way to catch the duck , but all her efforts were fruitless , for the little creature refused to let itself be caught .
19 Then a new idea struck the wicked old woman , and hiding herself behind the rock which had sheltered the fugitives , she waited behind it , watching carefully for the moment when the Prince and her daughter should resume their natural forms and continue their journey .
20 She had not to wait long , for as soon as the girl thought her mother was safely out of the way , she changed herself and the Prince once more into their human shape , and set out cheerfully for the river .
21 But they had not gone many steps when the wicked XXXXX hurried after them , a drawn dagger in her hand , and was close upon them , when suddenly , instead of the Prince and her daughter , she found herself in front of a great stone church , whose entrance was carefully guarded by a huge monk .	Fairy		Fairy|courage|distance|garments|gold|meantime|pair|rock|shelter|way

1 I 'm tired -- of living so .
2 Perhaps -- I 'll have a chance -- somewhere else .
3 I 've never -- had any -- here . ''
4 The dark eyes drooped -- closed .
5 Telford moaned shudderingly .
6 Once again Min opened her eyes and looked straight into his .
7 `` If I had met you -- long ago -- you would have -- loved me -- and I would have been -- a good woman .
8 It is well for us -- for you -- that I am -- dying .
9 Your path will be clear -- you will be good and successful -- but you will always -- remember me . ''
10 Telford bent and pressed his lips to Min 's pain-blanched mouth .
11 `` Do you think -- we will -- ever meet again ? ''
12 she said faintly .
13 `` Out there -- it 's so dark -- God can never -- forgive me -- I 've been so -- wicked . ''
14 `` Min , the all-loving Father is more merciful than man .
15 He will forgive you , if you ask Him , and you will wait for me till I come .
16 I will stay here and do my duty -- I will try hard -- '' His voice broke .
17 Min 's great black eyes beamed out on him with passionate tenderness .
18 The strong , deep , erring nature yielded at last .
19 An exceeding bitter cry rose to her lips .
20 `` Oh , God -- forgive me -- forgive me ! ''
21 And with the XXXXX , the soul of poor suffering , sinning , sinned-against Min Palmer fled -- who shall say whither ?	cry		God|chance|cry|duty|eyes|mouth|nature|path|tenderness|voice

1 So off they started after Old Mr. Toad , Peter Rabbit in the lead as usual , Unc ' Billy Possum next , grinning as only he can grin , and in the rear Jimmy Skunk , taking his time and keeping a sharp eye out for fat beetles .
2 III THE HUNT FOR OLD MR. TOAD Now , though Old Mr. Toad was hurrying as fast as ever he could and was quite out of breath , he was n't getting along very fast compared with the way Peter Rabbit or Jimmy Skunk or Unc ' Billy Possum could cover the ground .
3 You see he can not make long jumps like his cousin , Grandfather Frog , but only little short hops .
4 So Peter and Jimmy and Unc ' Billy took their time about following him .
5 They stopped to hunt for fat beetles for Jimmy Skunk , and at every little patch of sweet clover for Peter Rabbit to help himself .
6 Once they wasted a lot of time while Unc ' Billy Possum hunted for a nest of Carol the Meadow Lark , on the chance that he would find some fresh eggs there .
7 He did n't find the nest for the very good reason that Carol had n't built one yet .
8 Peter was secretly glad .
9 You know he does n't eat eggs , and he is always sorry for his feathered friends when their eggs are stolen .
10 Half way across the Green Meadows they stopped to play with the Merry Little Breezes , and because it was very pleasant there , they played longer than they realized .
11 When at last they started on again , Old Mr. Toad was out of sight .
12 You see all the time he had kept right on going , hop , hop , hipperty-hop .
13 `` Never mind , '' said Peter , `` we can catch up with him easy enough , he 's such a slow-poke . ''
14 But even a slow-poke who keeps right on doing a thing without wasting any time always gets somewhere sooner or later , very often sooner than those who are naturally quicker , but who waste their time .
15 So it was with Old Mr. Toad .
16 He kept right on , hop , hop , hipperty-hop , while the others were playing , and so it happened that when at last Peter and Jimmy and Unc ' Billy reached the Smiling Pool , they had n't caught another glimpse of Old Mr. Toad .
17 `` Do you suppose he hid somewhere , and we passed him ? ''
18 asked Peter .
19 Unc ' Billy shook his head .
20 `` Ah don ' reckon so , '' said he .
21 `` We-uns done been foolin ' away our XXXXX , an ' Brer Toad done stole a march on us .	time		HUNT|beetles|clover|friends|nest|others|reason|thing|time|way

1 ` Two days wrong ! '
2 sighed the Hatter . '
3 I told you butter would n't suit the works ! '
4 he added looking angrily at the March Hare .
5 ` It was the BEST butter , ' the March Hare meekly replied .
6 ` Yes , but some crumbs must have got in as well , ' the Hatter grumbled : ` you should n't have put it in with the bread-knife . '
7 The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily : then he dipped it into his cup of tea , and looked at it again : but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark , ` It was the BEST butter , you know . '
8 Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity .
9 ` What a funny watch ! '
10 she remarked .
11 ` It tells the day of the month , and does n't tell what o'clock it is ! '
12 ` Why should it ? '
13 muttered the Hatter .
14 ` Does YOUR watch tell you what year it is ? '
15 ` Of course not , ' Alice replied very readily : ` but that 's because it stays the same year for such a long time together . '
16 ` Which is just the case with MINE , ' said the Hatter .
17 Alice felt dreadfully puzzled .
18 The Hatter 's remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it , and yet it was certainly English . '
19 I do n't quite understand you , ' she said , as politely as she could .
20 ` The Dormouse is asleep again , ' said the Hatter , and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose .
21 The Dormouse shook its head impatiently , and said , without opening its eyes , ` Of XXXXX , of course ; just what I was going to remark myself . '	course		March|butter|course|curiosity|day|shoulder|time|watch|works|year

1 Fairer-than-a-Fairy lost no moment in which she could meet her lover , and they enjoyed many long and interesting interviews .
2 One day , however , their conversation became so absorbing and time passed so quickly that the Princess forgot to attend to the fire , and it went out .
3 Lagree , on her return , soon found out the neglect , and seemed only too pleased to have the opportunity of showing her spite to her lovely prisoner .
4 She ordered Fairer-than-a-Fairy to start next day at dawn to ask Locrinos for fire with which to relight the one she had allowed to go out .
5 Now this Locrinos was a cruel monster who devoured everyone he came across , and especially enjoyed a chance of catching and eating any young girls .
6 Our heroine obeyed with great sweetness , and without having been able to take leave of her lover she set off to go to Locrinos as to certain death .
7 As she was crossing a wood a bird sang to her to pick up a shining pebble which she would find in a fountain close by , and to use it when needed .
8 She took the bird 's advice , and in due time arrived at the house of Locrinos .
9 Luckily she only found his wife at home , who was much struck by the Princess 's youth and beauty and sweet gentle manners , and still further impressed by the present of the shining pebble .
10 She readily let Fairer-than-a-Fairy have the fire , and in return for the stone she gave her another , which , she said , might prove useful some day .
11 Then she sent her away without doing her any harm .
12 Lagree was as much surprised as displeased at the happy result of this expedition , and Fairer-than-a Fairy waited anxiously for an opportunity of meeting Prince Rainbow and telling him her adventures .
13 She found , however , that he had already been told all about them by a Fairy who protected him , and to whom he was related .
14 The dread of fresh dangers to his beloved Princess made him devise some more convenient way of meeting than by the garden fountain , and Fairer-than-a-Fairy carried out his plan daily with entire success .
15 Every morning she placed a large basin full of water on her window-sill , and as soon as the sun 's rays fell on the water the Rainbow appeared as clearly as it had ever done in the fountain .
16 By this means they were able to meet without losing sight of the fire or of the two bottles in which the old Fairy kept her eye and her tooth at night , and for some time the lovers enjoyed every hour of sunshine together .
17 One day Prince Rainbow appeared in the depths of woe .
18 He had just heard that he was to be banished from this lovely spot , but he had no idea where he was to go .
19 The poor young couple were in despair , and only parted with the last ray of sunshine , and in hopes of meeting next morning .
20 Alas !
21 next day was dark and gloomy , and it was only late in the afternoon that the XXXXX broke through the clouds for a few minutes .	sun		Fairy|advice|bird|chance|despair|house|leave|spot|sun|sweetness

1 He worked his way desperately , inch by inch , straight for the reservoirs , halting in silence .
2 Then from the ruined wall nearest the jungle rose up the rumbling war-shout of Baloo .
3 The old Bear had done his best , but he could not come before .
4 `` Bagheera , '' he shouted , `` I am here .
5 I climb !
6 I haste !
7 Ahuwora !
8 The stones slip under my feet !
9 Wait my coming , O most infamous Bandar-log ! ''
10 He panted up the terrace only to disappear to the head in a wave of monkeys , but he threw himself squarely on his haunches , and , spreading out his forepaws , hugged as many as he could hold , and then began to hit with a regular bat-bat-bat , like the flipping strokes of a paddle wheel .
11 A crash and a splash told Mowgli that Bagheera had fought his way to the tank where the monkeys could not follow .
12 The Panther lay gasping for breath , his head just out of the water , while the monkeys stood three deep on the red steps , dancing up and down with rage , ready to spring upon him from all sides if he came out to help Baloo .
13 It was then that Bagheera lifted up his dripping chin , and in despair gave the Snake 's Call for protection -- `` We be of one blood , ye and I '' -- for he believed that Kaa had turned tail at the last minute .
14 Even Baloo , half smothered under the monkeys on the edge of the terrace , could not help chuckling as he heard the Black Panther asking for help .
15 Kaa had only just worked his way over the west wall , landing with a wrench that dislodged a coping stone into the ditch .
16 He had no intention of losing any advantage of the ground , and coiled and uncoiled himself once or twice , to be sure that every foot of his long body was in working order .
17 All that while the fight with Baloo went on , and the monkeys yelled in the tank round Bagheera , and Mang the Bat , flying to and fro , carried the news of the great battle over the jungle , till even Hathi the Wild Elephant trumpeted , and , far away , scattered bands of the Monkey-Folk woke and came leaping along the tree-roads to help their comrades in the Cold Lairs , and the noise of the fight roused all the day birds for miles round .
18 Then Kaa came straight , quickly , and anxious to kill .
19 The fighting strength of a python is in the driving blow of his head backed by all the strength and weight of his body .
20 If you can imagine a lance , or a battering ram , or a hammer weighing nearly half a ton driven by a cool , quiet mind living in the handle of it , you can roughly imagine what Kaa was like when he fought .
21 A python four or five XXXXX long can knock a man down if he hits him fairly in the chest , and Kaa was thirty feet long , as you know .	feet		edge|feet|foot|ground|head|lance|monkeys|order|python|wall

1 Then he desired one of his beasts to show the men the way out of the garden , and dismissed them .
2 They then left the island and went back to their own country , where they related what had happened to them .
3 Soon the time came round when the king of the beasts would expect the youths and maidens to be brought to him .
4 The King therefore issued a proclamation inviting twelve youths and twelve maidens to offer themselves up to save their country ; and immediately many young people , far more than enough , hastened to do so .
5 A new ship was built , and set with black sails , and in it the youths and maidens who were appointed for the king of the beasts embarked and set out for his country .
6 When they arrived there they went at once to the Lake , and this time the lions did not stir , nor did the springs flow , and neither did the Lake speak .
7 So they waited then , and it was not long before the earth quaked even more terribly than the first time .
8 The Seven-headed Serpent came without his train of beasts , saw his prey waiting for him , and devoured it at one mouthful .
9 Then the ship 's crew returned home , and the same thing happened yearly until many years had passed .
10 Now the King of this unhappy country was growing old , and so was the Queen , and they had no children .
11 One day the Queen was sitting at the window weeping bitterly because she was childless , and knew that the crown would therefore pass to strangers after the King 's death .
12 Suddenly a little old woman appeared before her , holding an apple in her hand , and said , ` Why do you weep , my Queen , and what makes you so unhappy ? '
13 ` Alas , good mother , ' answered the Queen , ' I am unhappy because I have no children . '
14 ` Is that what vexes you ? '
15 said the old woman .
16 ` Listen to me .
17 I am a nun from the Spinning Convent , -LRB- 10 -RRB- and my mother when she died left me this apple .
18 Whoever eats this apple shall have a child . '
19 -LRB- 10 -RRB- Convent Gnothi .
20 The Queen gave money to the old woman , and bought the apple from her .
21 Then she peeled it , ate it , and threw the rind out of the XXXXX , and it so happened that a mare that was running loose in the court below ate up the rind .	window		Convent|Serpent|children|earth|hand|island|king|mother|nun|window

1 The priest came to the gate , and with him at least a hundred people , who stared and talked and shouted and pointed at Mowgli .
2 `` They have no manners , these Men Folk , '' said Mowgli to himself .
3 `` Only the gray ape would behave as they do . ''
4 So he threw back his long hair and frowned at the crowd .
5 `` What is there to be afraid of ? ''
6 said the priest .
7 `` Look at the marks on his arms and legs .
8 They are the bites of wolves .
9 He is but a wolf-child run away from the jungle . ''
10 Of course , in playing together , the cubs had often nipped Mowgli harder than they intended , and there were white scars all over his arms and legs .
11 But he would have been the last person in the world to call these bites , for he knew what real biting meant .
12 `` Arre !
13 Arre ! ''
14 said two or three women together .
15 `` To be bitten by wolves , poor child !
16 He is a handsome boy .
17 He has eyes like red fire .
18 By my honor , Messua , he is not unlike thy boy that was taken by the tiger . ''
19 `` Let me look , '' said a woman with heavy copper rings on her wrists and ankles , and she peered at Mowgli under the palm of her hand .
20 `` Indeed he is not .
21 He is thinner , but he has the very look of my XXXXX . ''	boy		ape|arms|boy|child|gate|jungle|marks|tiger|wolves|world

1 Three-and-thirty times it sang the same piece without being tired .
2 People would like to have heard it again , but the Emperor thought that the living Nightingale should sing now -- but where was she ?
3 No one had noticed that she had flown out of the open window away to her green woods .
4 ` What SHALL we do ! '
5 said the Emperor .
6 And all the Court scolded , and said that the Nightingale was very ungrateful .
7 ` But we have still the best bird ! '
8 they said and the artificial bird had to sing again , and that was the thirty-fourth time they had heard the same piece .
9 But they did not yet know it by heart ; it was much too difficult .
10 And the bandmaster praised the bird tremendously ; yes , he assured them it was better than a real nightingale , not only because of its beautiful plumage and diamonds , but inside as well .
11 ` For see , my Lords and Ladies and your Imperial Majesty , with the real Nightingale one can never tell what will come out , but all is known about the artificial bird !
12 You can explain it , you can open it and show people where the waltzes lie , how they go , and how one follows the other ! '
13 ` That 's just what we think ! '
14 said everyone ; and the bandmaster received permission to show the bird to the people the next Sunday .
15 They should hear it sing , commanded the Emperor .
16 And they heard it , and they were as pleased as if they had been intoxicated with tea , after the Chinese fashion , and they all said ` Oh ! '
17 and held up their forefingers and nodded time .
18 But the poor fishermen who had heard the real Nightingale said : ` This one sings well enough , the tunes glide out ; but there is something wanting -- I do n't know what ! '
19 The real Nightingale was banished from the kingdom .
20 The artificial bird was put on silken cushions by the Emperor 's bed , all the presents which it received , gold and precious stones , lay round it , and it was given the title of Imperial Night-singer , First from the left .
21 For the Emperor counted that side as the more distinguished , being the side on which the XXXXX is ; the Emperor 's heart is also on the left .	heart		Ladies|Lords|cushions|gold|heart|nightingale|one|presents|tunes|window

1 His mother Radha Pyari , -- Radha the darling , -- who had been caught in the same drive with Kala Nag , told him , before his little milk tusks had dropped out , that elephants who were afraid always got hurt .
2 Kala Nag knew that that advice was good , for the first time that he saw a shell burst he backed , screaming , into a stand of piled rifles , and the bayonets pricked him in all his softest places .
3 So , before he was twenty-five , he gave up being afraid , and so he was the best-loved and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of India .
4 He had carried tents , twelve hundred pounds ' weight of tents , on the march in Upper India .
5 He had been hoisted into a ship at the end of a steam crane and taken for days across the water , and made to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India , and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in Magdala , and had come back again in the steamer entitled , so the soldiers said , to the Abyssinian War medal .
6 He had seen his fellow elephants die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid , ten years later ; and afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles south to haul and pile big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein .
7 There he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was shirking his fair share of work .
8 After that he was taken off timber-hauling , and employed , with a few score other elephants who were trained to the business , in helping to catch wild elephants among the Garo hills .
9 Elephants are very strictly preserved by the Indian Government .
10 There is one whole department which does nothing else but hunt them , and catch them , and break them in , and send them up and down the country as they are needed for work .
11 Kala Nag stood ten fair feet at the shoulders , and his tusks had been cut off short at five feet , and bound round the ends , to prevent them splitting , with bands of copper ; but he could do more with those stumps than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpened ones .
12 When , after weeks and weeks of cautious driving of scattered elephants across the hills , the forty or fifty wild monsters were driven into the last stockade , and the big drop gate , made of tree trunks lashed together , jarred down behind them , Kala Nag , at the word of command , would go into that flaring , trumpeting pandemonium -LRB- generally at night , when the flicker of the torches made it difficult to judge distances -RRB- , and , picking out the biggest and wildest tusker of the mob , would hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the backs of the other elephants roped and tied the smaller ones .
13 There was nothing in the way of fighting that Kala Nag , the old wise Black Snake , did not know , for he had stood up more than once in his time to the charge of the wounded tiger , and , curling up his soft trunk to be out of harm 's way , had knocked the springing brute sideways in mid-air with a quick sickle cut of his head , that he had invented all by himself ; had knocked him over , and kneeled upon him with his huge knees till the life went out with a gasp and a howl , and there was only a fluffy striped thing on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail .
14 `` Yes , '' said Big Toomai , his driver , the son of Black Toomai who had taken him to Abyssinia , and grandson of Toomai of the Elephants who had seen him caught , `` there is nothing that the Black Snake fears except me .
15 He has seen three generations of us feed him and groom him , and he will live to see four . ''
16 `` He is afraid of me also , '' said Little Toomai , standing up to his full height of four feet , with only one rag upon him .
17 He was ten years old , the eldest son of Big Toomai , and , according to custom , he would take his father 's place on Kala Nag 's neck when he grew up , and would handle the heavy iron ankus , the elephant goad , that had been worn smooth by his father , and his grandfather , and his great-grandfather .
18 He knew what he was talking of ; for he had been born under Kala Nag 's shadow , had played with the end of his trunk before he could walk , had taken him down to water as soon as he could walk , and Kala Nag would no more have dreamed of disobeying his shrill little orders than he would have dreamed of killing him on that day when Big Toomai carried the little brown baby under Kala Nag 's tusks , and told him to salute his master that was to be .
19 `` Yes , '' said Little Toomai , `` he is afraid of me , '' and he took long strides up to Kala Nag , called him a fat old pig , and made him lift up his feet one after the other .
20 `` Wah ! ''
21 said Little Toomai , `` thou art a big elephant , '' and he wagged his fluffy head , quoting his XXXXX .	father		Snake|advice|custom|elephants|father|feet|howl|hunt|strides|tents

1 I doubt if he will find any cattle ! '
2 said Little Klaus as he drove his own home .
3 PRINCE RING -LRB- 30 -RRB- -LRB- 30 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
4 Once upon a time there was a King and his Queen in their kingdom .
5 They had one daughter , who was called Ingiborg , and one son , whose name was Ring .
6 He was less fond of adventures than men of rank usually were in those days , and was not famous for strength or feats of arms .
7 When he was twelve years old , one fine winter day he rode into the forest along with his men to enjoy himself .
8 They went on a long way , until they caught sight of a hind with a gold ring on its horns .
9 The Prince was eager to catch it , if possible , so they gave chase and rode on without stopping until all the horses began to founder beneath them .
10 At last the Prince 's horse gave way too , and then there came over them a darkness so black that they could no longer see the hind .
11 By this time they were far away from any house , and thought it was high time to be making their way home again , but they found they had got lost now .
12 At first they all kept together , but soon each began to think that he knew the right way best ; so they separated , and all went in different directions .
13 The Prince , too , had got lost like the rest , and wandered on for a time until he came to a little clearing in the forest not far from the sea , where he saw a woman sitting on a chair and a big barrel standing beside her .
14 The Prince went up to her and saluted her politely , and she received him very graciously .
15 He looked down into the barrel then , and saw lying at the bottom an unusually beautiful gold ring , which pleased him so much that he could not take his eyes off it .
16 The woman saw this , and said that he might have it if he would take the trouble to get it ; for which the Prince thanked her , and said it was at least worth trying .
17 So he leaned over into the barrel , which did not seem very deep , and thought he would easily reach the ring ; but the more he stretched down after it the deeper grew the barrel .
18 As he was thus bending down into it the woman suddenly rose up and pushed him in head first , saying that now he could take up his quarters there .
19 Then she fixed the top on the barrel and threw it out into the sea .
20 The Prince thought himself in a bad plight now , as he felt the barrel floating out from the land and tossing about on the waves .
21 How many days he spent thus he could not tell , but at last he felt that the XXXXX was knocking against rocks , at which he was a little cheered , thinking it was probably land and not merely a reef in the sea .	barrel		barrel|chair|chase|forest|home|kingdom|land|sight|son|woman

1 Ring grew terribly afraid .
2 ` How do you like them ? '
3 asked Snati .
4 ` Not well at all , ' said the Prince .
5 ` We can do nothing else , ' said Snati , ` than attack them , if it is to go well ; you will go against the little one , and I shall take the other . '
6 With this Snati leapt at the big one , and was not long in bringing him down .
7 Meanwhile the Prince went against the other with fear and trembling , and by the time Snati came to help him the ox had nearly got him under , but Snati was not slow in helping his master to kill it .
8 Each of them then began to flay their own ox , but Ring was only half through by the time Snati had finished his .
9 In the evening , after they had finished this task , the Prince thought himself unfit to carry all the horns and both the hides , so Snati told him to lay them all on his back until they got to the Palace gate .
10 The Prince agreed , and laid everything on the Dog except the skin of the smaller ox , which he staggered along with himself .
11 At the Palace gate he left everything lying , went before the King , and asked him to come that length with him , and there handed over to him the hides and horns of the oxen .
12 The King was greatly surprised at his valour , and said he knew no one like him , and thanked him heartily for what he had done .
13 After this the King set Ring next to himself , and all esteemed him highly , and held him to be a great hero ; nor could Red any longer say anything against him , though he grew still more determined to destroy him .
14 One day a good idea came into his head .
15 He came to the King and said he had something to say to him .
16 ` What is that ? '
17 said the King .
18 Red said that he had just remembered the gold cloak , gold chess-board , and bright gold piece that the King had lost about a year before .
19 ` Do n't remind me of them ! '
20 said the King .
21 Red , however , went on to say that , since XXXXX was such a mighty man that he could do everything , it had occurred to him to advise the King to ask him to search for these treasures , and come back with them before Christmas ; in return the King should promise him his daughter .	Ring		Ring|anything|back|fear|head|hides|horns|idea|something|task

1 But she said nothing , and went into the sleeping-room , took off all the bed-clothes , and laid a pea on the bottom of the bed .
2 Then she put twenty mattresses on top of the pea , and twenty eider-down quilts on the top of the mattresses .
3 And this was the bed in which the Princess was to sleep .
4 The next morning she was asked how she had slept .
5 ` Oh , very badly ! '
6 said the Princess . '
7 I scarcely closed my eyes all night !
8 I am sure I do n't know what was in the bed .
9 I laid on something so hard that my whole body is black and blue .
10 It is dreadful ! '
11 Now they perceived that she was a true Princess , because she had felt the pea through the twenty mattresses and the twenty eider-down quilts .
12 No one but a true Princess could be so sensitive .
13 So the Prince married her , for now he knew that at last he had got hold of a true Princess .
14 And the pea was put into the Royal Museum , where it is still to be seen if no one has stolen it .
15 Now this is a true story .
16 THE BLUE MOUNTAINS There were once a Scotsman and an Englishman and an Irishman serving in the army together , who took it into their heads to run away on the first opportunity they could get .
17 The chance came and they took it .
18 They went on travelling for two days through a great forest , without food or drink , and without coming across a single house , and every night they had to climb up into the trees through fear of the wild beasts that were in the wood .
19 On the second morning the Scotsman saw from the top of his tree a great castle far away .
20 He said to himself that he would certainly die if he stayed in the forest without anything to eat but the roots of grass , which would not keep him alive very long .
21 As soon , then , as he got down out of the tree he set off towards the XXXXX , without so much as telling his companions that he had seen it at all ; perhaps the hunger and want they had suffered had changed their nature so much that the one did not care what became of the other if he could save himself .	castle		bed|body|bottom|castle|chance|drink|heads|one|opportunity|top

1 Lige Barton had said so himself .
2 Hope and courage returned with a rush .
3 He accosted the first man he met and asked if he could tell him the way to Hopedale .
4 `` Reckon I can , sonny .
5 I live in the next district .
6 Want to go there ?
7 If you wait till evening , I can give you a lift part of the way .
8 It 's five miles out . ''
9 `` Thank you , sir , '' said Chester firmly , `` but I must go at once if you 'll kindly direct me .
10 It 's important . ''
11 `` Well , it 's a straight road .
12 That 's Albemarle Street down there -- follow it till it takes you out to the country , and then keep straight on till you come to a church painted yellow and white .
13 Turn to your right , and over the hill is Hopedale .
14 But you 'd better wait for me .
15 You do n't look fit to walk five miles . ''
16 But Chester was off .
17 Walk five miles !
18 Pooh !
19 He could walk twenty with hope to lure him on .
20 Albemarle Street finally frayed off into a real country road .
21 Chester was glad to find himself out in the XXXXX once more , with the great golden fields basking on either side and the wooded hills beyond , purple with haze .	country		church|country|courage|fit|hope|man|road|rush|sonny|way

1 Chester would have been bitterly disappointed if she had failed to go .
2 She was greatly shocked to find out that he had never said his prayers before going to bed .
3 She insisted on teaching him the simple little one she had used herself when a child .
4 When Chester found that it would please her , he said it every night .
5 There was nothing he would not have done for Miss Salome .
6 She talked a good deal to him about Johnny and she gave him the jack-knife that Johnny had owned .
7 `` It belonged to a good , manly little boy once , '' she said , `` and now I hope it belongs to another such . ''
8 `` I ai n't very good , '' said Chester repentantly , `` but I 'll try to be , Miss Salome -- honest , I will . ''
9 One day he heard Miss Salome speaking of someone who had run away from home .
10 `` A wicked , ungrateful boy , '' she called him .
11 Chester blushed until his freckles were drowned out in a sea of red , and Clemantiny saw it , of course .
12 When did anything ever escape those merciless black eyes of Clemantiny 's ?
13 `` Do you think it 's always wrong for a fellow to run away , Miss Salome ? ''
14 he faltered .
15 `` It ca n't ever be right , '' said Miss Salome decidedly .
16 `` But if he was n't treated well -- and was jawed at -- and not let go to school ? ''
17 pleaded Chester .
18 Clemantiny gave Miss Salome a look as of one who would say , You 're bat-blind if you ca n't read between the lines of that ; but Miss Salome was placidly unconscious .
19 She was not really thinking of the subject at all , and did not guess that Chester meant anything more than generalities .
20 `` Not even then , '' she said firmly .
21 `` Nothing can justify a XXXXX for running away -- especially as Jarvis Colemen did -- never even left a word behind him to say where he 'd gone .	boy		Miss|boy|child|course|deal|lines|look|nothing|school|subject

1 And she hates men !
2 I do n't know what she would do if she saw me now . ''
3 Mr. Shelmardine frowned and switched the unoffending daisies viciously with his cane .
4 `` Then there is no hope of my seeing you openly and above-board ? ''
5 `` Not at present , '' I said faintly .
6 After a brief silence we began to talk of other things .
7 He told me how he happened to see me first .
8 `` I was curious to know who the people were who were always in the same place at the same time , so one day I took my telescope .
9 I could see you plainly .
10 You were reading and had your hat off .
11 When I went back to the hotel I asked Mrs. Allardyce if she knew who the boarders at Fir Cottage were and she told me .
12 I had heard Connie speak of you , and I determined to make your acquaintance . ''
13 When we reached the lane I held out my hand for the hymnal .
14 `` You must n't come any further , Mr. Shelmardine , '' I said hurriedly .
15 `` Aunt -- Aunt might see you . ''
16 He took my hand and held it , looking at me seriously .
17 `` Suppose I were to walk up to the cottage tomorrow and ask for you ? ''
18 I gasped .
19 He looked so capable of doing anything he took it into his head to do .
20 `` Oh , you would n't , '' I said piteously .
21 `` XXXXX Martha would -- you are not in earnest . ''	Aunt		Aunt|acquaintance|anything|hat|lane|men|people|place|telescope|things

1 he stammered at last .
2 Old Mr. Toad grinned .
3 `` I 'll show you , '' said he .
4 And right while Peter was looking at him , he began to sink down into the ground until only the top of his head could be seen .
5 Then that disappeared .
6 Old Mr. Toad had gone down , and the sand had fallen right back over him .
7 Peter just had to rub his eyes again .
8 He had to !
9 Then , to make sure , he began to dig away the sand where Old Mr. Toad had been sitting .
10 In a minute he felt Old Mr. Toad , who at once came out again .
11 Old Mr. Toad 's beautiful eyes twinkled more than ever .
12 `` I guess we are even now , Peter , '' said he .
13 Peter nodded .
14 `` More than that , Mr. Toad .
15 I think you have a little the best of it , '' he replied .
16 `` Now wo n't you tell me how you did it ? ''
17 Old Mr. Toad held up one of his stout hind feet , and on it was a kind of spur .
18 `` There 's another just like that on the other foot , '' said he , `` and I use them to dig with .
19 You go into a hole headfirst , but I go in the other way .
20 I make my hole in soft earth and back into it at the same time , this way . ''
21 He began to work his stout hind feet , and as he kicked the XXXXX out , he backed in at the same time .	earth		Mr.|earth|eyes|ground|head|hole|sand|time|top|way

1 I am alone on the grazing-grounds .
2 Gray Brother , come to me !
3 Come to me , Lone Wolf , for there is big game afoot !
4 Bring up the great bull buffaloes , the blue-skinned herd bulls with the angry eyes .
5 Drive them to and fro as I order .
6 Sleepest thou still , Shere Khan ?
7 Wake , oh , wake !
8 Here come I , and the bulls are behind .
9 Rama , the King of the Buffaloes , stamped with his foot .
10 Waters of the Waingunga , whither went Shere Khan ?
11 He is not Ikki to dig holes , nor Mao , the Peacock , that he should fly .
12 He is not Mang the Bat , to hang in the branches .
13 Little bamboos that creak together , tell me where he ran ?
14 Ow !
15 He is there .
16 Ahoo !
17 He is there .
18 Under the feet of Rama lies the Lame One !
19 Up , Shere Khan !
20 Up and kill !
21 Here is meat ; break the necks of the XXXXX !	bulls		Bat|Lame|Peacock|bulls|feet|foot|game|holes|order|wake

1 He also thanked him for his good service , and told him to choose some-one of his possessions , for he would get whatever he wanted .
2 Ring thanked him heartily , and said there was no need to pay him for his services , they were so little worth ; but if he did wish to give him anything he would choose what was in the parlour .
3 The Giant was taken by surprise , and said : ` There , you chose my old woman 's right hand ; but I must not break my word . '
4 Upon this he went to get the Dog , which came running with signs of great delight ; but the Prince was so much afraid of it that it was all he could do to keep from showing his alarm .
5 After this the Giant accompanied him down to the sea , where he saw a stone boat which was just big enough to hold the two of them and the Dog .
6 On reaching the mainland the Giant took a friendly farewell of Ring , and told him he might take possession of all that was in the island after he and his wife died , which would happen within two weeks from that time .
7 The Prince thanked him for this and for all his other kindnesses , and the Giant returned home , while Ring went up some distance from the sea ; but he did not know what land he had come to , and was afraid to speak to the Dog .
8 After he had walked on in silence for a time the Dog spoke to him and said : ` You do n't seem to have much curiosity , seeing you never ask my name . '
9 The Prince then forced himself to ask , ` What is your name ? '
10 ` You had best call me Snati-Snati , ' said the Dog .
11 ` Now we are coming to a King 's seat , and you must ask the King to keep us all winter , and to give you a little room for both of us . '
12 The Prince now began to be less afraid of the Dog .
13 They came to the King and asked him to keep them all the winter , to which he agreed .
14 When the King 's men saw the Dog they began to laugh at it , and make as if they would tease it ; but when the Prince saw this he advised them not to do it , or they might have the worst of it .
15 They replied that they did n't care a bit what he thought .
16 After Ring had been with the King for some days the latter began to think there was a great deal in him , and esteemed him more than the others .
17 The King , however , had a counsellor called Red , who became very jealous when he saw how much the King esteemed Ring ; and one day he talked to him , and said he could not understand why he had so good an opinion of this stranger , who had not yet shown himself superior to other men in anything .
18 The King replied that it was only a short time since he had come there .
19 Red then asked him to send them both to cut down wood next morning , and see which of them could do most work .
20 Snati-Snati heard this and told it to Ring , advising him to ask the King for two axes , so that he might have one in reserve if the first one got broken .
21 Next morning the King asked XXXXX and Red to go and cut down trees for him , and both agreed .	Ring		Dog|Ring|bit|deal|delight|opinion|signs|silence|woman|wood

1 `` Indeed ! ''
2 Mr. Cropper 's voice expressed bland surprise .
3 `` That is strange .
4 As a rule I do not think Alfred and Robert have been troublesome to their teachers .
5 What have they been doing now ? ''
6 `` They refuse to obey my orders , '' said Esther faintly .
7 `` Ah , well , Miss Maxwell , perhaps you will pardon my saying that a teacher should be able to enforce her orders .
8 My boys are high-spirited fellows and need a strong , firm hand to restrain them .
9 I have always said I considered it advisable to employ a male teacher in Maitland school .
10 We should have better order .
11 Not that I disapprove of you personally -- far from it .
12 I should be glad to see you succeed .
13 But I have heard many complaints regarding the order in school at present . ''
14 `` I had no trouble until your boys came , '' retorted Esther , losing her temper a little , `` and I believe that if you were willing to co-operate with me that I could govern them . ''
15 `` Well , you see , '' said Mr. Cropper easily , `` when I send my boys to school I naturally expect that the teacher will be capable of doing the work she has been hired to do . ''
16 `` Then you refuse to help me ? ''
17 said Esther in a trembling voice .
18 `` Why , my dear young lady , what can I do ?
19 Boys soon know when they can disobey a teacher with impunity .
20 No doubt you will be able to secure a school easier to control and will do good work .
21 But here , as I have already said , we need a firm XXXXX at the helm .	hand		Miss|complaints|fellows|hand|order|surprise|teachers|trouble|voice|work

1 At last he got hold of another kind of cabbage , but scarcely had swallowed it when he felt another change , and he once more regained his human form .
2 The Hunter now lay down and slept off his weariness .
3 When he awoke the next morning he broke off a head of the bad and a head of the good cabbage , thinking , ` This will help me to regain my own , and to punish faithlessness . '
4 Then he put the heads in his pockets , climbed the wall , and started off to seek the castle of his love .
5 When he had wandered about for a couple of days he found it quite easily .
6 He then browned his face quickly , so that his own mother would not have known him , and went into the castle , where he begged for a lodging . '
7 I am so tired , ' he said , ' I can go no farther . '
8 The witch asked , ` Countryman , who are you , and what is your business ? '
9 He answered , ' I am a messenger of the King , and have been sent to seek the finest salad that grows under the sun .
10 I have been so lucky as to find it , and am bringing it with me ; but the heat of the sun is so great that the tender cabbage threatens to grow soft , and I do not know if I shall be able to bring it any farther . '
11 When the old witch heard of the fine salad she wanted to eat it , and said , ` Dear countryman , just let me taste the wonderful salad . '
12 ` Why not ? '
13 he answered ; ' I have brought two heads with me , and will give you one . '
14 So saying , he opened his sack and gave her the bad one .
15 The witch suspected no evil , and her mouth watered to taste the new dish , so that she went into the kitchen to prepare it herself .
16 When it was ready she could not wait till it was served at the table , but she immediately took a couple of leaves and put them in her mouth .
17 No sooner , however , had she swallowed them than she lost human form , and ran into the courtyard in the shape of a donkey .
18 Now the servant came into the kitchen , and when she saw the salad standing there ready cooked she was about to carry it up , but on the way , according to her old habit , she tasted it and ate a couple of leaves .
19 Immediately the charm worked , and she became a donkey , and ran out to join the old witch , and the dish with the salad in it fell to the ground .
20 In the meantime , the messenger was sitting with the lovely maiden , and as no one came with the salad , and she wanted very much to taste it , she said , ' I do n't know where the salad is . '
21 Then thought the Hunter , ` The XXXXX must have already begun to work . '	cabbage		business|cabbage|form|maiden|morning|sack|servant|table|wall|weariness

1 exclaimed his mother in a great passion .
2 ` Leave the house at once , and go and beg your bread among strangers ; ' and as Martin did not dare to contradict her , he called Schurka and Waska and started off with them to the nearest village in search of work .
3 On the way he met a rich peasant , who asked him where he was going . '
4 I want to get work as a day labourer , ' he answered .
5 ` Come along with me , then .
6 But I must tell you I engage my labourers without wages .
7 If you serve me faithfully for a year , I promise you it shall be for your advantage . '
8 So Martin consented , and for a year he worked diligently , and served his master faithfully , not sparing himself in any way .
9 When the day of reckoning had come the peasant led him into a barn , and pointing to two full sacks , said : ` Take whichever of these you choose . '
10 Martin examined the contents of the sacks , and seeing that one was full of silver and the other of sand , he said to himself : ` There must be some trick about this ; I had better take the sand . '
11 And throwing the sack over his shoulders he started out into the world , in search of fresh work .
12 On and on he walked , and at last he reached a great gloomy wood .
13 In the middle of the wood he came upon a meadow , where a fire was burning , and in the midst of the fire , surrounded by flames , was a lovely damsel , more beautiful than anything that Martin had ever seen , and when she saw him she called to him : ` Martin , if you would win happiness , save my life .
14 Extinguish the flames with the sand that you earned in payment of your faithful service . '
15 ` Truly , ' thought Martin to himself , ` it would be more sensible to save a fellow-being 's life with this sand than to drag it about on one 's back , seeing what a weight it is . '
16 And forthwith he lowered the sack from his shoulders and emptied its contents on the flames , and instantly the fire was extinguished ; but at the same moment lo !
17 and behold the lovely damsel turned into a Serpent , and , darting upon him , coiled itself round his neck , and whispered lovingly in his ear : ` Do not be afraid of me , Martin ; I love you , and will go with you through the world .
18 But first you must follow me boldly into my Father 's Kingdom , underneath the earth ; and when we get there , remember this -- he will offer you gold and silver , and dazzling gems , but do not touch them .
19 Ask him , instead , for the ring which he wears on his little finger , for in that ring lies a magic power ; you have only to throw it from one hand to the other , and at once twelve young men will appear , who will do your bidding , no matter how difficult , in a single night . '
20 So they started on their way , and after much wandering they reached a spot where a great rock rose straight up in the middle of the road .
21 Instantly the Serpent uncoiled itself from his XXXXX , and , as it touched the damp earth , it resumed the shape of the lovely damsel .	neck		bidding|ear|finger|matter|men|neck|rock|sack|sand|trick

1 If you read the old books of natural history , you will find they say that when the mongoose fights the snake and happens to get bitten , he runs off and eats some herb that cures him .
2 That is not true .
3 The victory is only a matter of quickness of eye and quickness of foot -- snake 's blow against mongoose 's jump -- and as no eye can follow the motion of a snake 's head when it strikes , this makes things much more wonderful than any magic herb .
4 Rikki-tikki knew he was a young mongoose , and it made him all the more pleased to think that he had managed to escape a blow from behind .
5 It gave him confidence in himself , and when Teddy came running down the path , Rikki-tikki was ready to be petted .
6 But just as Teddy was stooping , something wriggled a little in the dust , and a tiny voice said : `` Be careful .
7 I am Death ! ''
8 It was Karait , the dusty brown snakeling that lies for choice on the dusty earth ; and his bite is as dangerous as the cobra 's .
9 But he is so small that nobody thinks of him , and so he does the more harm to people .
10 Rikki-tikki 's eyes grew red again , and he danced up to Karait with the peculiar rocking , swaying motion that he had inherited from his family .
11 It looks very funny , but it is so perfectly balanced a gait that you can fly off from it at any angle you please , and in dealing with snakes this is an advantage .
12 If Rikki-tikki had only known , he was doing a much more dangerous thing than fighting Nag , for Karait is so small , and can turn so quickly , that unless Rikki bit him close to the back of the head , he would get the return stroke in his eye or his lip .
13 But Rikki did not know .
14 His eyes were all red , and he rocked back and forth , looking for a good place to hold .
15 Karait struck out .
16 Rikki jumped sideways and tried to run in , but the wicked little dusty gray head lashed within a fraction of his shoulder , and he had to jump over the body , and the head followed his heels close .
17 Teddy shouted to the house : `` Oh , look here !
18 Our mongoose is killing a snake . ''
19 And Rikki-tikki heard a scream from Teddy 's mother .
20 His father ran out with a stick , but by the time he came up , Karait had lunged out once too far , and Rikki-tikki had sprung , jumped on the snake 's back , dropped his head far between his forelegs , bitten as high up the back as he could get hold , and rolled away .
21 That XXXXX paralyzed Karait , and Rikki-tikki was just going to eat him up from the tail , after the custom of his family at dinner , when he remembered that a full meal makes a slow mongoose , and if he wanted all his strength and quickness ready , he must keep himself thin .	bite		bite|dust|earth|father|herb|history|house|place|snake|victory

1 `` Lawful heart ! ''
2 said Clemantiny .
3 She set down her pail and came out to the lane on a run .
4 She caught Chester as he sprang from the wagon and gave him a hearty hug .
5 `` I 'm glad clean down to my boot soles to see you back again , '' she said .
6 `` He 's back for good , '' said Miss Salome .
7 `` Chester , you 'd better go in and study up your lessons for tomorrow . ''
8 The Strike at Putney The church at Putney was one that gladdened the hearts of all the ministers in the presbytery whenever they thought about it .
9 It was such a satisfactory church .
10 While other churches here and there were continually giving trouble in one way or another , the Putneyites were never guilty of brewing up internal or presbyterial strife .
11 The Exeter church people were always quarrelling among themselves and carrying their quarrels to the courts of the church .
12 The very name of Exeter gave the members of presbytery the cold creeps .
13 But the Putney church people never quarrelled .
14 Danbridge church was in a chronic state of ministerlessness .
15 No minister ever stayed in Danbridge longer than he could help .
16 The people were too critical , and they were also noted heresy hunters .
17 Good ministers fought shy of Danbridge , and poor ones met with a chill welcome .
18 The harassed presbytery , worn out with `` supplying , '' were disposed to think that the millennium would come if ever the Danbridgians got a minister whom they liked .
19 At Putney they had had the same minister for fifteen years and hoped and expected to have him for fifteen more .
20 They looked with horror-stricken eyes on the Danbridge theological coquetries .
21 Bloom Valley XXXXX was over head and heels in debt and had no visible prospect of ever getting out .	church		church|lane|members|millennium|minister|people|run|state|trouble|wagon

1 said the King .
2 Red , however , went on to say that , since Ring was such a mighty man that he could do everything , it had occurred to him to advise the King to ask him to search for these treasures , and come back with them before Christmas ; in return the King should promise him his daughter .
3 The King replied that he thought it altogether unbecoming to propose such a thing to Ring , seeing that he could not tell him where the things were ; but Red pretended not to hear the King 's excuses , and went on talking about it until the King gave in to him .
4 One day , a month or so before Christmas , the King spoke to Ring , saying that he wished to ask a great favour of him .
5 ` What is that ? '
6 said Ring .
7 ` It is this , ' said the King : ` that you find for me my gold cloak , my gold chess-board , and my bright gold piece , that were stolen from me about a year ago .
8 If you can bring them to me before Christmas I will give you my daughter in marriage . '
9 ` Where am I to look for them , then ? '
10 said Ring .
11 ` That you must find out for yourself , ' said the King : ' I do n't know . '
12 Ring now left the King , and was very silent , for he saw he was in a great difficulty : but , on the other hand , he thought it was excellent to have such a chance of winning the King 's daughter .
13 Snati noticed that his master was at a loss , and said to him that he should not disregard what the King had asked him to do ; but he would have to act upon his advice , otherwise he would get into great difficulties .
14 The Prince assented to this , and began to prepare for the journey .
15 After he had taken leave of the King , and was setting out on the search , Snati said to him , ` Now you must first of all go about the neighbourhood , and gather as much salt as ever you can . '
16 The Prince did so , and gathered so much salt that he could hardly carry it ; but Snati said , ` Throw it on my back , ' which he accordingly did , and the Dog then ran on before the Prince , until they came to the foot of a steep cliff .
17 ` We must go up here , ' said Snati . '
18 I do n't think that will be child 's play , ' said the Prince .
19 ` Hold fast by my tail , ' said Snati ; and in this way he pulled Ring up on the lowest shelf of the rock .
20 The Prince began to get giddy , but up went Snati on to the second shelf .
21 XXXXX was nearly swooning by this time , but Snati made a third effort and reached the top of the cliff , where the Prince fell down in a faint .	Ring		Christmas|Ring|chance|journey|man|master|neighbourhood|rock|salt|shelf

1 Keep the cows and calves together , and the bulls and the plow buffaloes by themselves . ''
2 The two wolves ran , ladies ' - chain fashion , in and out of the herd , which snorted and threw up its head , and separated into two clumps .
3 In one , the cow-buffaloes stood with their calves in the center , and glared and pawed , ready , if a wolf would only stay still , to charge down and trample the life out of him .
4 In the other , the bulls and the young bulls snorted and stamped , but though they looked more imposing they were much less dangerous , for they had no calves to protect .
5 No six men could have divided the herd so neatly .
6 `` What orders ! ''
7 panted Akela .
8 `` They are trying to join again . ''
9 Mowgli slipped on to Rama 's back .
10 `` Drive the bulls away to the left , Akela .
11 Gray Brother , when we are gone , hold the cows together , and drive them into the foot of the ravine . ''
12 `` How far ? ''
13 said Gray Brother , panting and snapping .
14 `` Till the sides are higher than Shere Khan can jump , '' shouted Mowgli .
15 `` Keep them there till we come down . ''
16 The bulls swept off as Akela bayed , and Gray Brother stopped in front of the cows .
17 They charged down on him , and he ran just before them to the foot of the ravine , as Akela drove the bulls far to the left .
18 `` Well done !
19 Another charge and they are fairly started .
20 Careful , now -- careful , Akela .
21 A snap too much and the XXXXX will charge .	bulls		Gray|bulls|center|cows|foot|front|life|men|ravine|sides

1 For she had no idea that the kind-looking old woman leaning on her crutch was in reality a wicked witch , who envied the Queen her good fortune , and was determined to ruin her .
2 And so , in all ignorance , the Queen followed her out into the garden and listened to her smooth , flattering words .
3 Now , in the middle of the garden there was a pond of water , clear as crystal , and the old woman said to the Queen : ` The day is so warm , and the sun 's rays so scorching , that the water in the pond looks very cool and inviting .
4 Would you not like to bathe in it , fair Queen ? '
5 ` No , I think not , ' answered the Queen ; but the next moment she regretted her words , and thought to herself : Why should n't I bathe in that cool , fresh water ?
6 No harm could come of it .
7 And , so saying , she slipped off her robes and stepped into the water .
8 But scarcely had her tender feet touched the cool ripples when she felt a great shove on her shoulders , and the wicked witch had pushed her into the deep water , exclaiming : ` Swim henceforth , White Duck ! '
9 And the witch herself assumed the form of the Queen , and decked herself out in the royal robes , and sat among the Court ladies , awaiting the King 's return .
10 And suddenly the tramp of horses ' hoofs was heard , and the barking of dogs , and the witch hastened forward to meet the royal carriages , and , throwing her arms round the King 's neck , kissed him .
11 And in his great joy the King did not know that the woman he held in his arms was not his own dear wife , but a wicked witch .
12 In the meantime , outside the palace walls , the poor White Duck swam up and down the pond ; and near it laid three eggs , out of which there came one morning two little fluffy ducklings and a little ugly drake .
13 And the White Duck brought the little creatures up , and they paddled after her in the pond , and caught gold-fish , and hopped upon the bank and waddled about , ruffling their feathers and saying ` Quack , quack ' as they strutted about on the green banks of the pond .
14 But their mother used to warn them not to stray too far , telling them that a wicked witch lived in the castle beyond the garden , adding , ` She has ruined me , and she will do her best to ruin you . '
15 But the young ones did not listen to their mother , and , playing about the garden one day , they strayed close up to the castle windows .
16 The witch at once recognised them by their smell , and ground her teeth with anger ; but she hid her feelings , and , pretending to be very kind she called them to her and joked with them , and led them into a beautiful room , where she gave them food to eat , and showed them a soft cushion on which they might sleep .
17 Then she left them and went down into the palace kitchens , where she told the servants to sharpen the knives , and to make a great fire ready , and hang a large kettleful of water over it .
18 In the meantime the two little ducklings had fallen asleep , and the little drake lay between them , covered up by their wings , to be kept warm under their feathers .
19 But the little drake could not go to sleep , and as he lay there wide awake in the night he heard the witch come to the door and say : ` Little ones , are you asleep ? '
20 And the little drake answered for the other two : ` We can not sleep , we wake and weep , Sharp is the knife , to take our life ; The fire is hot , now boils the pot , And so we wake , and lie and quake . '
21 ` They are not asleep yet , ' muttered the XXXXX to herself ; and she walked up and down in the passage , and then came back to the door , and said : ` Little ones , are you asleep ? '	witch		castle|drake|ignorance|joy|knife|lie|mother|water|witch|woman

1 Lagree was as much surprised as displeased at the happy result of this expedition , and Fairer-than-a Fairy waited anxiously for an opportunity of meeting Prince Rainbow and telling him her adventures .
2 She found , however , that he had already been told all about them by a Fairy who protected him , and to whom he was related .
3 The dread of fresh dangers to his beloved Princess made him devise some more convenient way of meeting than by the garden fountain , and Fairer-than-a-Fairy carried out his plan daily with entire success .
4 Every morning she placed a large basin full of water on her window-sill , and as soon as the sun 's rays fell on the water the Rainbow appeared as clearly as it had ever done in the fountain .
5 By this means they were able to meet without losing sight of the fire or of the two bottles in which the old Fairy kept her eye and her tooth at night , and for some time the lovers enjoyed every hour of sunshine together .
6 One day Prince Rainbow appeared in the depths of woe .
7 He had just heard that he was to be banished from this lovely spot , but he had no idea where he was to go .
8 The poor young couple were in despair , and only parted with the last ray of sunshine , and in hopes of meeting next morning .
9 Alas !
10 next day was dark and gloomy , and it was only late in the afternoon that the sun broke through the clouds for a few minutes .
11 Fairer-than-a-Fairy eagerly ran to the window , but in her haste she upset the basin , and spilt all the water with which she had carefully filled it overnight .
12 No other water was at hand except that in the two bottles .
13 It was the only chance of seeing her lover before they were separated , and she did not hesitate to break the bottle and pour their contents into the basin , when the Rainbow appeared at once .
14 Their farewells were full of tenderness ; the Prince made the most ardent and sincere protestations , and promised to neglect nothing which might help to deliver his dear Fairer-than-a-Fairy from her captivity , and implored her to consent to their marriage as soon as they should both be free .
15 The Princess , on her side , vowed to have no other husband , and declared herself willing to brave death itself in order to rejoin him .
16 They were not allowed much time for their adieus ; the Rainbow vanished , and the Princess , resolved to run all risks , started off at once , taking nothing with her but her dog , her cat , a sprig of myrtle , and the stone which the wife of Locrinos gave her .
17 When Lagree became aware of her prisoner 's flight she was furious , and set off at full speed in pursuit .
18 She overtook her just as the poor girl , overcome by fatigue , had lain down to rest in a cave which the stone had formed itself into to shelter her .
19 The little dog who was watching her mistress promptly flew at Lagree and bit her so severely that she stumbled against a corner of the cave and broke off her only tooth .
20 Before she had recovered from the pain and rage this caused her , the Princess had time to escape , and was some way on her road .
21 Fear gave her strength for some XXXXX , but at last she could go no further , and sank down to rest .	time		day|despair|expedition|eye|mistress|nothing|rage|shelter|time|tooth

1 ` Yes , now I have seen him ; he looked just like our sexton .
2 Oh , it was horrid ! '
3 So he had to drink again , and they drank till far on into the night .
4 ` You MUST sell me the wizard , ' said the farmer .
5 ` Ask anything you like !
6 I will pay you down a bushelful of money on the spot . '
7 ` No , I really ca n't , ' said Little Klans .
8 ` Just think how many things I can get from this wizard ! '
9 ` Ah !
10 I should like to have him so much ! '
11 said the farmer , begging very hard .
12 ` Well ! '
13 said Little Klaus at last , ` as you have been so good as to give me shelter to-night , I will sell him .
14 You shall have the wizard for a bushel of money , but I must have full measure . '
15 ` That you shall , ' said the farmer .
16 ` But you must take the chest with you .
17 I wo n't keep it another hour in the house .
18 Who knows that he is n't in there still ? '
19 Little Klaus gave the farmer his sack with the dry skin , and got instead a good bushelful of money .
20 The farmer also gave him a wheelbarrow to carry away his money and the chest .
21 ` Farewell , ' said Little Klaus ; and away he went with his money and the big chest , wherein sat the XXXXX .	sexton		anything|chest|house|money|sack|sexton|skin|spot|things|wizard

1 I would n't be in Bill 's place for a good deal : this fireplace is narrow , to be sure ; but I THINK I can kick a little ! '
2 She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could , and waited till she heard a little animal -LRB- she could n't guess of what sort it was -RRB- scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her : then , saying to herself ` This is Bill , ' she gave one sharp kick , and waited to see what would happen next .
3 The first thing she heard was a general chorus of ` There goes Bill ! '
4 then the Rabbit 's voice along -- ` Catch him , you by the hedge ! '
5 then silence , and then another confusion of voices -- ` Hold up his head -- Brandy now -- Do n't choke him -- How was it , old fellow ?
6 What happened to you ?
7 Tell us all about it ! '
8 Last came a little feeble , squeaking voice , -LRB- ` That 's Bill , ' thought Alice , -RRB- ` Well , I hardly know -- No more , thank ye ; I 'm better now -- but I 'm a deal too flustered to tell you -- all I know is , something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box , and up I goes like a sky-rocket ! '
9 ` So you did , old fellow ! '
10 said the others .
11 ` We must burn the house down ! '
12 said the Rabbit 's voice ; and Alice called out as loud as she could , ` If you do .
13 I 'll set Dinah at you ! '
14 There was a dead silence instantly , and Alice thought to herself , ' I wonder what they WILL do next !
15 If they had any sense , they 'd take the roof off . '
16 After a minute or two , they began moving about again , and Alice heard the Rabbit say , ' A barrowful will do , to begin with . ' '
17 A barrowful of WHAT ? '
18 thought Alice ; but she had not long to doubt , for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the window , and some of them hit her in the face .
19 ` I 'll put a stop to this , ' she said to herself , and shouted out , ` You 'd better not do that again ! '
20 which produced another dead silence .
21 Alice noticed with some surprise that the XXXXX were all turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor , and a bright idea came into her head .	pebbles		Rabbit|animal|fellow|fireplace|others|pebbles|shower|silence|stop|thing

1 ` The Queen will hear you !
2 You see , she came rather late , and the Queen said -- ' ` Get to your places ! '
3 shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder , and people began running about in all directions , tumbling up against each other ; however , they got settled down in a minute or two , and the game began .
4 Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in her life ; it was all ridges and furrows ; the balls were live hedgehogs , the mallets live flamingoes , and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet , to make the arches .
5 The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo : she succeeded in getting its body tucked away , comfortably enough , under her arm , with its legs hanging down , but generally , just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out , and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head , it WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face , with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing : and when she had got its head down , and was going to begin again , it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself , and was in the act of crawling away : besides all this , there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to , and , as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground , Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed .
6 The players all played at once without waiting for turns , quarrelling all the while , and fighting for the hedgehogs ; and in a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion , and went stamping about , and shouting ` Off with his head ! '
7 or ` Off with her head ! '
8 about once in a minute .
9 Alice began to feel very uneasy : to be sure , she had not as yet had any dispute with the Queen , but she knew that it might happen any minute , ` and then , ' thought she , ` what would become of me ?
10 They 're dreadfully fond of beheading people here ; the great wonder is , that there 's any one left alive ! '
11 She was looking about for some way of escape , and wondering whether she could get away without being seen , when she noticed a curious appearance in the air : it puzzled her very much at first , but , after watching it a minute or two , she made it out to be a grin , and she said to herself ` It 's the Cheshire Cat : now I shall have somebody to talk to . '
12 ` How are you getting on ? '
13 said the Cat , as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with .
14 Alice waited till the eyes appeared , and then nodded .
15 ` It 's no use speaking to it , ' she thought , 'till its ears have come , or at least one of them . '
16 In another minute the whole head appeared , and then Alice put down her flamingo , and began an account of the game , feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her .
17 The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight , and no more of it appeared . '
18 I do n't think they play at all fairly , ' Alice began , in rather a complaining tone , ` and they all quarrel so dreadfully one ca n't hear oneself speak -- and they do n't seem to have any rules in particular ; at least , if there are , nobody attends to them -- and you 've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive ; for instance , there 's the arch I 've got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground -- and I should have croqueted the Queen 's hedgehog just now , only it ran away when it saw mine coming ! '
19 ` How do you like the Queen ? '
20 said the Cat in a low voice .
21 ` Not at all , ' said Alice : ` she 's so extremely -- ' Just then she noticed that the Queen was close behind her , listening : so she went on , ' -- likely to win , that it 's hardly worth while finishing the XXXXX . '	game		Cat|arches|balls|conclusion|dispute|eyes|feet|game|hands|somebody

1 But the wicked witch was taken by the King 's command , and she came to no good end .
2 THE WITCH AND HER SERVANTS -LRB- 22 -RRB- -LRB- 22 -RRB- From the Russian .
3 Kletke .
4 Long time ago there lived a King who had three sons ; the eldest was called Szabo , the second Warza , and the youngest Iwanich .
5 One beautiful spring morning the King was walking through his gardens with these three sons , gazing with admiration at the various fruit-trees , some of which were a mass of blossom , whilst others were bowed to the ground laden with rich fruit .
6 During their wanderings they came unperceived on a piece of waste land where three splendid trees grew .
7 The King looked on them for a moment , and then , shaking his head sadly , he passed on in silence .
8 The sons , who could not understand why he did this , asked him the reason of his dejection , and the King told them as follows : ` These three trees , which I can not see without sorrow , were planted by me on this spot when I was a youth of twenty .
9 A celebrated magician , who had given the seed to my father , promised him that they would grow into the three finest trees the world had ever seen .
10 My father did not live to see his words come true ; but on his death-bed he bade me transplant them here , and to look after them with the greatest care , which I accordingly did .
11 At last , after the lapse of five long years , I noticed some blossoms on the branches , and a few days later the most exquisite fruit my eyes had ever seen . '
12 I gave my head-gardener the strictest orders to watch the trees carefully , for the magician had warned my father that if one unripe fruit were plucked from the tree , all the rest would become rotten at once .
13 When it was quite ripe the fruit would become a golden yellow .
14 ` Every day I gazed on the lovely fruit , which became gradually more and more tempting-looking , and it was all I could do not to break the magician 's commands .
15 ` One night I dreamt that the fruit was perfectly ripe ; I ate some of it , and it was more delicious than anything I had ever tasted in real life .
16 As soon as I awoke I sent for the gardener and asked him if the fruit on the three trees had not ripened in the night to perfection .
17 ` But instead of replying , the gardener threw himself at my feet and swore that he was innocent .
18 He said that he had watched by the trees all night , but in spite of it , and as if by magic , the beautiful trees had been robbed of all their fruit .
19 ` Grieved as I was over the theft , I did not punish the gardener , of whose fidelity I was well assured , but I determined to pluck off all the fruit in the following year before it was ripe , as I had not much belief in the magician 's warning . '
20 I carried out my intention , and had all the fruit picked off the tree , but when I tasted one of the apples it was bitter and unpleasant , and the next morning the rest of the fruit had all rotted away .
21 ` After this I had the beautiful fruit of these trees carefully guarded by my most faithful servants ; but every year , on this very night , the XXXXX was plucked and stolen by an invisible hand , and next morning not a single apple remained on the trees .	fruit		admiration|days|end|eyes|fruit|gardens|head|wanderings|witch|words

1 Sometimes a mother would push her cub far out into the moonlight to be sure that he had not been overlooked .
2 Akela from his rock would cry : `` Ye know the Law -- ye know the Law .
3 Look well , O Wolves ! ''
4 And the anxious mothers would take up the call : `` Look -- look well , O Wolves ! ''
5 At last -- and Mother Wolf 's neck bristles lifted as the time came -- Father Wolf pushed `` Mowgli the Frog , '' as they called him , into the center , where he sat laughing and playing with some pebbles that glistened in the moonlight .
6 Akela never raised his head from his paws , but went on with the monotonous cry : `` Look well ! ''
7 A muffled roar came up from behind the rocks -- the voice of Shere Khan crying : `` The cub is mine .
8 Give him to me .
9 What have the Free People to do with a man 's cub ? ''
10 Akela never even twitched his ears .
11 All he said was : `` Look well , O Wolves !
12 What have the Free People to do with the orders of any save the Free People ?
13 Look well ! ''
14 There was a chorus of deep growls , and a young wolf in his fourth year flung back Shere Khan 's question to Akela : `` What have the Free People to do with a man 's cub ? ''
15 Now , the Law of the Jungle lays down that if there is any dispute as to the right of a cub to be accepted by the Pack , he must be spoken for by at least two members of the Pack who are not his father and mother .
16 `` Who speaks for this cub ? ''
17 said Akela .
18 `` Among the Free People who speaks ? ''
19 There was no answer and Mother Wolf got ready for what she knew would be her last fight , if things came to fighting .
20 Then the only other creature who is allowed at the Pack Council -- Baloo , the sleepy brown bear who teaches the wolf cubs the Law of the Jungle : old Baloo , who can come and go where he pleases because he eats only nuts and roots and honey -- rose upon his hind quarters and grunted .
21 `` The XXXXX 's cub -- the man 's cub ? ''	man		Frog|center|father|man|mother|mothers|pebbles|time|voice|wolf

1 There they were married , and they remained in the castle , which was much larger than that of the Princess 's father 's .
2 But because the old man did not like being left alone , they went and fetched him .
3 So they had two kingdoms and lived in great wealth .
4 A mouse has run , My story 's done .
5 THE DRAGON AND HIS GRANDMOTHER There was once a great war , and the King had a great many soldiers , but he gave them so little pay that they could not live upon it .
6 Then three of them took counsel together and determined to desert .
7 One of them said to the others , ` If we are caught , we shall be hanged on the gallows ; how shall we set about it ? '
8 The other said , ` Do you see that large cornfield there ?
9 If we were to hide ourselves in that , no one could find us .
10 The army can not come into it , and to-morrow it is to march on . '
11 They crept into the corn , but the army did not march on , but remained encamped close around them .
12 They sat for two days and two nights in the corn , and grew so hungry that they nearly died ; but if they were to venture out , it was certain death .
13 They said at last , ` What use was it our deserting ?
14 We must perish here miserably . '
15 Whilst they were speaking a fiery dragon came flying through the air .
16 It hovered near them , and asked why they were hidden there .
17 They answered , ` We are three soldiers , and have deserted because our pay was so small .
18 Now if we remain here we shall die of hunger , and if we move out we shall be strung up on the gallows . '
19 ` If you will serve me for seven years , ' said the dragon , I will lead you through the midst of the army so that no one shall catch you . '
20 ` We have no choice , and must take your offer , ' said they .
21 Then the XXXXX seized them in his claws , took them through the air over the army , and set them down on the earth a long way from it .	dragon		corn|counsel|death|dragon|gallows|man|midst|pay|story|wealth

1 In this way the Dragon was able to feed upon both men and beasts without the least trouble to itself , as it needed not to move from the spot where it was lying .
2 All the neighbouring kings had offered rich rewards to anyone who should be able to destroy the monster , either by force or enchantment , and many had tried their luck , but all had miserably failed .
3 Once a great forest in which the Dragon lay had been set on fire ; the forest was burnt down , but the fire did not do the monster the least harm .
4 However , there was a tradition amongst the wise men of the country that the Dragon might be overcome by one who possessed King Solomon 's signet-ring , upon which a secret writing was engraved .
5 This inscription would enable anyone who was wise enough to interpret it to find out how the Dragon could be destroyed .
6 Only no one knew where the ring was hidden , nor was there any sorcerer or learned man to be found who would be able to explain the inscription .
7 At last a young man , with a good heart and plenty of courage , set out to search for the ring .
8 He took his way towards the sunrising , because he knew that all the wisdom of old time comes from the East .
9 After some years he met with a famous Eastern magician , and asked for his advice in the matter .
10 The magician answered : ` Mortal men have but little wisdom , and can give you no help , but the birds of the air would be better guides to you if you could learn their language .
11 I can help you to understand it if you will stay with me a few days . '
12 The youth thankfully accepted the magician 's offer , and said , ' I can not now offer you any reward for your kindness , but should my undertaking succeed your trouble shall be richly repaid . '
13 Then the magician brewed a powerful potion out of nine sorts of herbs which he had gathered himself all alone by moonlight , and he gave the youth nine spoonfuls of it daily for three days , which made him able to understand the language of birds .
14 At parting the magician said to him .
15 ` If you ever find Solomon 's ring and get possession of it , then come back to me , that I may explain the inscription on the ring to you , for there is no one else in the world who can do this . '
16 From that time the youth never felt lonely as he walked along ; he always had company , because he understood the language of birds ; and in this way he learned many things which mere human knowledge could never have taught him .
17 But time went on , and he heard nothing about the ring .
18 It happened one evening , when he was hot and tired with walking , and had sat down under a tree in a forest to eat his supper , that he saw two gaily-plumaged birds , that were strange to him , sitting at the top of the tree talking to one another about him .
19 The first bird said : ' I know that wandering fool under the tree there , who has come so far without finding what he seeks .
20 He is trying to find King Solomon 's lost ring . '
21 The other bird answered , ` He will have to seek XXXXX from the Witch-maiden , -LRB- 3 -RRB- who will doubtless be able to put him on the right track .	help		birds|company|harm|heart|help|parting|possession|reward|tradition|way

1 The end nearest the wall , you said ? ''
2 `` Rikki-tikki , you are not going to eat her eggs ? ''
3 `` Not eat exactly ; no .
4 Darzee , if you have a grain of sense you will fly off to the stables and pretend that your wing is broken , and let Nagaina chase you away to this bush .
5 I must get to the melon-bed , and if I went there now she 'd see me . ''
6 Darzee was a feather-brained little fellow who could never hold more than one idea at a time in his head .
7 And just because he knew that Nagaina 's children were born in eggs like his own , he did n't think at first that it was fair to kill them .
8 But his wife was a sensible bird , and she knew that cobra 's eggs meant young cobras later on .
9 So she flew off from the nest , and left Darzee to keep the babies warm , and continue his song about the death of Nag .
10 Darzee was very like a man in some ways .
11 She fluttered in front of Nagaina by the rubbish heap and cried out , `` Oh , my wing is broken !
12 The boy in the house threw a stone at me and broke it . ''
13 Then she fluttered more desperately than ever .
14 Nagaina lifted up her head and hissed , `` You warned Rikki-tikki when I would have killed him .
15 Indeed and truly , you 've chosen a bad place to be lame in . ''
16 And she moved toward Darzee 's wife , slipping along over the dust .
17 `` The boy broke it with a stone ! ''
18 shrieked Darzee 's wife .
19 `` Well !
20 It may be some consolation to you when you 're dead to know that I shall settle accounts with the boy .
21 My husband lies on the rubbish XXXXX this morning , but before night the boy in the house will lie very still .	heap		accounts|death|end|heap|house|place|song|wall|ways|wife

1 But no one could think of any advice to give him , beyond taking care that the child never went near the mill-pond .
2 So the boy throve and grew big , and in the meantime all prospered with the miller , and in a few years he was richer than he had ever been before .
3 But all the same he did not enjoy his good fortune , for he could not forget his compact with the nixy , and he knew that sooner or later she would demand his fulfilment of it .
4 But year after year went by , and the boy grew up and became a great hunter , and the lord of the land took him into his service , for he was as smart and bold a hunter as you would wish to see .
5 In a short time he married a pretty young wife , and lived with her in great peace and happiness .
6 One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field .
7 The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
8 Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid .
9 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
10 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves .
11 When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew very anxious , and when his game bag was found close to the mill-pond she guessed at once what had befallen him .
12 She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing .
13 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
14 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
15 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
16 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
17 The hunter 's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .
18 Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon , but it passed at last , and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond , combed her black hair with a golden comb , and when she had finished , placed the comb on the bank ; then she watched the water impatiently .
19 Soon she heard a rushing sound , and a big wave rose suddenly and swept the comb off the bank , and a minute after the head of her husband rose from the pond and gazed sadly at her .
20 But immediately another wave came , and the head sank back into the water without having said a word .
21 The pond lay still and motionless , glittering in the moonshine , and the hunter 's XXXXX was not a bit better off than she had been before .	wife		dream|hair|husband|round|service|shot|skin|sorrow|wife|word

1 For a minute it seemed as though he were going to draw his sword and slash his way out through the English men and women in the carriages at the back .
2 Then the advance stopped dead , the ground stood still , the whole line saluted , and thirty bands began to play all together .
3 That was the end of the review , and the regiments went off to their camps in the rain , and an infantry band struck up with -- The animals went in two by two , Hurrah !
4 The animals went in two by two , The elephant and the battery mul ' , and they all got into the Ark For to get out of the rain !
5 Then I heard an old grizzled , long-haired Central Asian chief , who had come down with the Amir , asking questions of a native officer .
6 `` Now , '' said he , `` in what manner was this wonderful thing done ? ''
7 And the officer answered , `` An order was given , and they obeyed . ''
8 `` But are the beasts as wise as the men ? ''
9 said the chief .
10 `` They obey , as the men do .
11 Mule , horse , elephant , or bullock , he obeys his driver , and the driver his sergeant , and the sergeant his lieutenant , and the lieutenant his captain , and the captain his major , and the major his colonel , and the colonel his brigadier commanding three regiments , and the brigadier the general , who obeys the Viceroy , who is the servant of the Empress .
12 Thus it is done . ''
13 `` Would it were so in Afghanistan ! ''
14 said the chief , `` for there we obey only our own wills . ''
15 `` And for that reason , '' said the native officer , twirling his mustache , `` your Amir whom you do not obey must come here and take orders from our Viceroy . ''
16 Parade Song of the Camp Animals ELEPHANTS OF THE GUN TEAMS We lent to Alexander the strength of Hercules , The wisdom of our foreheads , the cunning of our knees ; We bowed our necks to service : they ne'er were loosed again , -- Make way there -- way for the ten-foot teams Of the Forty-Pounder train !
17 GUN BULLOCKS Those heroes in their harnesses avoid a cannon-ball , And what they know of powder upsets them one and all ; Then we come into action and tug the guns again -- Make way there -- way for the twenty yoke Of the Forty-Pounder train !
18 CAVALRY HORSES By the brand on my shoulder , the finest of tunes Is played by the Lancers , Hussars , and Dragoons , And it 's sweeter than `` Stables '' or `` Water '' to me -- The Cavalry Canter of `` Bonnie Dundee '' !
19 Then feed us and break us and handle and groom , And give us good riders and plenty of room , And launch us in column of squadron and see The way of the war-horse to `` Bonnie Dundee '' !
20 SCREW-GUN MULES As me and my companions were scrambling up a hill , The path was lost in rolling stones , but we went forward still ; For we can wriggle and climb , my lads , and turn up everywhere , Oh , it 's our delight on a mountain height , with a leg or two to spare !
21 Good luck to every XXXXX , then , that lets us pick our road ; Bad luck to all the driver-men that can not pack a load : For we can wriggle and climb , my lads , and turn up everywhere , Oh , it 's our delight on a mountain height , with a leg or two to spare !	sergeant		GUN|captain|carriages|companions|groom|reason|regiments|sergeant|thing|women

1 You need not read them aloud -- I can imagine them all .
2 Let me know what she says about the chest . ''
3 Aunt Winnifred opened and read the letter and laid it down with a brief sigh .
4 `` This is all she says about the chest .
5 ` If it were not for one thing that is in it , I would ask you to open the chest and burn all its contents .
6 But I can not bear that anyone but myself should see or touch that one thing .
7 So please leave the chest as it is , dear Aunt .
8 It is no matter if the moths do get in . '
9 That is all , '' continued Mrs. DeLisle , `` and I must confess that I am disappointed .
10 I have always had an almost childish curiosity about that old chest , but I seem fated not to have it gratified .
11 That ` one thing ' must be her wedding dress .
12 I have always thought that she locked it away there . ''
13 `` Her answer is just what I expected of her , '' said Grandmother impatiently .
14 `` Evidently the years have not made her more sensible .
15 Well , I wash my hands of her belongings , moths or no moths . ''
16 It was not until ten years afterwards that I heard anything more of the old chest .
17 Grandmother Laurance had died , but Aunt Winnifred still lived at the Grange .
18 She was very lonely , and the winter after Grandmother 's death she sent me an invitation to make her a long visit .
19 When I revisited the garret and saw the old blue chest in the same dusty corner , my childish curiosity revived and I begged Aunt Winnifred to tell me its history .
20 `` I am glad you have reminded me of it , '' said Mrs. DeLisle .
21 `` I have intended to open the XXXXX ever since Mother 's death but I kept putting it off .	chest		answer|anyone|anything|belongings|chest|corner|letter|moths|sigh|thing

1 The ` Good Queen ' on her side watched carefully over her godson .
2 She was obliged to do so from a distance , her own country being a remote one , but she was well informed of all that went on and knew all about the Queen 's wicked designs .
3 She therefore sent the Prince a large and splendid ruby , with injunctions to wear it night and day as it would protect him from all attacks , but added that the talisman only retained its power as long as the Prince remained within his father 's dominions .
4 The Wicked Queen knowing this made every attempt to get the Prince out of the country , but her efforts failed , till one day accident did what she was unable to accomplish .
5 The King had an only sister who was deeply attached to him , and who was married to the sovereign of a distant country .
6 She had always kept up a close correspondence with her brother , and the accounts she heard of Prince Alphege made her long to become acquainted with so charming a nephew .
7 She entreated the King to allow the Prince to visit her , and after some hesitation which was overruled by his wife , he finally consented .
8 Prince Alphege was at this time fourteen years old , and the handsomest and most engaging youth imaginable .
9 In his infancy he had been placed in the charge of one of the great ladies of the Court , who , according to the prevailing custom , acted first as his head nurse and then as his governess .
10 When he outgrew her care her husband was appointed as his tutor and governor , so that he had never been separated from this excellent couple , who loved him as tenderly as they did their only daughter Zayda , and were warmly loved by him in return .
11 When the Prince set forth on his travels it was but natural that this devoted couple should accompany him , and accordingly he started with them and attended by a numerous retinue .
12 For some time he travelled through his father 's dominions and all went well ; but soon after passing the frontier they had to cross a desert plain under a burning sun .
13 They were glad to take shelter under a group of trees near , and here the Prince complained of burning thirst .
14 Luckily a tiny stream ran close by and some water was soon procured , but no sooner had he tasted it than he sprang from his carriage and disappeared in a moment .
15 In vain did his anxious followers seek for him , he was nowhere to be found .
16 As they were hunting and shouting through the trees a black monkey suddenly appeared on a point of rock and said : ` Poor sorrowing people , you are seeking your Prince in vain .
17 Return to your own country and know that he will not be restored to you till you have for some time failed to recognise him . '
18 With these words he vanished , leaving the courtiers sadly perplexed ; but as all their efforts to find the Prince were useless they had no choice but to go home , bringing with them the sad news , which so greatly distressed the King that he fell ill and died not long after .
19 The Queen , whose ambition was boundless , was delighted to see the crown on her son 's head and to have the power in her own hands .
20 Her hard rule made her very unpopular , and it was commonly believed that she had made away with Prince Alphege .
21 Indeed , had the King her XXXXX not been deservedly beloved a revolution would certainly have arisen .	son		Return|ambition|distance|followers|frontier|home|ladies|shelter|son|trees

1 Alice thought she might as well go back , and see how the game was going on , as she heard the Queen 's voice in the distance , screaming with passion .
2 She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns , and she did not like the look of things at all , as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not .
3 So she went in search of her hedgehog .
4 The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog , which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other : the only difficulty was , that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden , where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree .
5 By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back , the fight was over , and both the hedgehogs were out of sight : ` but it does n't matter much , ' thought Alice , ` as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground . '
6 So she tucked it away under her arm , that it might not escape again , and went back for a little more conversation with her friend .
7 When she got back to the Cheshire Cat , she was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it : there was a dispute going on between the executioner , the King , and the Queen , who were all talking at once , while all the rest were quite silent , and looked very uncomfortable .
8 The moment Alice appeared , she was appealed to by all three to settle the question , and they repeated their arguments to her , though , as they all spoke at once , she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said .
9 The executioner 's argument was , that you could n't cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from : that he had never had to do such a thing before , and he was n't going to begin at HIS time of life .
10 The King 's argument was , that anything that had a head could be beheaded , and that you were n't to talk nonsense .
11 The Queen 's argument was , that if something was n't done about it in less than no time she 'd have everybody executed , all round .
12 -LRB- It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious . -RRB-
13 Alice could think of nothing else to say but ` It belongs to the Duchess : you 'd better ask HER about it . '
14 ` She 's in prison , ' the Queen said to the executioner : ` fetch her here . '
15 And the executioner went off like an arrow .
16 The Cat 's head began fading away the moment he was gone , and , by the time he had come back with the Duchess , it had entirely disappeared ; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it , while the rest of the party went back to the game .
17 CHAPTER IX .
18 The Mock Turtle 's Story ` You ca n't think how glad I am to see you again , you dear old thing ! '
19 said the Duchess , as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice 's , and they walked off together .
20 Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper , and thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage when they met in the kitchen .
21 ` When I 'M a Duchess , ' she said to herself , -LRB- not in a very hopeful tone though -RRB- , ' I wo n't have any XXXXX in my kitchen AT ALL .	pepper		anything|arguments|arrow|distance|ground|moment|pepper|side|temper|thing

1 As soon as the next moon was full the hunter 's wife went to the mill-pond , played on a golden flute , and when she had finished placed it on the bank .
2 Then a rushing sound was heard , and a wave swept the flute off the bank , and soon the head of the hunter appeared and rose up higher and higher till he was half out of the water .
3 Then he gazed sadly at his wife and stretched out his arms towards her .
4 But another rushing wave arose and dragged him under once more .
5 The hunter 's wife , who had stood on the bank full of joy and hope , sank into despair when she saw her husband snatched away again before her eyes .
6 But for her comfort she dreamt the same dream a third time , and betook herself once more to the old witch 's hut in the flowery meadow .
7 This time the old woman told her to go the next full moon to the mill-pond , and to spin there with a golden spinning-wheel , and then to leave the spinning-wheel on the bank .
8 The hunter 's wife did as she was advised , and the first night the moon was full she sat and spun with a golden spinning-wheel , and then left the wheel on the bank .
9 In a few minutes a rushing sound was heard in the waters , and a wave swept the spinning-wheel from the bank .
10 Immediately the head of the hunter rose up from the pond , getting higher and higher each moment , till at length he stepped on to the bank and fell on his wife 's neck .
11 But the waters of the pond rose up suddenly , overflowed the bank where the couple stood , and dragged them under the flood .
12 In her despair the young wife called on the old witch to help her , and in a moment the hunter was turned into a frog and his wife into a toad .
13 But they were not able to remain together , for the water tore them apart , and when the flood was over they both resumed their own shapes again , but the hunter and the hunter 's wife found themselves each in a strange country , and neither knew what had become of the other .
14 The hunter determined to become a shepherd , and his wife too became a shepherdess .
15 So they herded their sheep for many years in solitude and sadness .
16 Now it happened once that the shepherd came to the country where the shepherdess lived .
17 The neighbourhood pleased him , and he saw that the pasture was rich and suitable for his flocks .
18 So he brought his sheep there , and herded them as before .
19 The shepherd and shepherdess became great friends , but they did not recognise each other in the least .
20 But one evening when the moon was full they sat together watching their flocks , and the shepherd played upon his flute .
21 Then the shepherdess thought of that evening when she had sat at the full XXXXX by the mill-pond and had played on the golden flute ; the recollection was too much for her , and she burst into tears .	moon		comfort|friends|frog|hut|length|moon|sadness|sheep|solitude|wife

1 When he at length lost power to move his tail , the youth with the help of the ring took up a stone which twenty ordinary men could not have moved , and beat the Dragon so hard about the head with it that very soon the monster lay lifeless before him .
2 You can fancy how great was the rejoicing when the news was spread abroad that the terrible monster was dead .
3 His conqueror was received into the city with as much pomp as if he had been the mightiest of kings .
4 The old King did not need to urge his daughter to marry the slayer of the Dragon ; he found her already willing to bestow her hand upon this hero , who had done all alone what whole armies had tried in vain to do .
5 In a few days a magnificent wedding was celebrated , at which the rejoicings lasted four whole weeks , for all the neighbouring kings had met together to thank the man who had freed the world from their common enemy .
6 But everyone forgot amid the general joy that they ought to have buried the Dragon 's monstrous body , for it began now to have such a bad smell that no one could live in the neighbourhood , and before long the whole air was poisoned , and a pestilence broke out which destroyed many hundreds of people .
7 In this distress , the King 's son-in-law resolved to seek help once more from the Eastern magician , to whom he at once travelled through the air like a bird by the help of the ring .
8 But there is a proverb which says that ill-gotten gains never prosper , and the Prince found that the stolen ring brought him ill-luck after all .
9 The Witch-maiden had never rested night nor day until she had found out where the ring was .
10 As soon as she had discovered by means of magical arts that the Prince in the form of a bird was on his way to the Eastern magician , she changed herself into an eagle and watched in the air until the bird she was waiting for came in sight , for she knew him at once by the ring which was hung round his neck by a ribbon .
11 Then the eagle pounced upon the bird , and the moment she seized him in her talons she tore the ring from his neck before the man in bird 's shape had time to prevent her .
12 Then the eagle flew down to the earth with her prey , and the two stood face to face once more in human form .
13 ` Now , villain , you are in my power ! '
14 cried the Witch-maiden . '
15 I favoured you with my love , and you repaid me with treachery and theft .
16 You stole my most precious jewel from me , and do you expect to live happily as the King 's son-in-law ?
17 Now the tables are turned ; you are in my power , and I will be revenged on you for your crimes . '
18 ` Forgive me !
19 forgive me ! '
20 cried the Prince ; ' I know too well how deeply I have wronged you , and most heartily do I repent it . '
21 The maiden answered , ` Your prayers and your repentance come too late , and if I were to spare you XXXXX would think me a fool .	everyone		body|daughter|everyone|joy|love|man|one|son-in-law|tables|world

1 ` THAT you wo n't ' thought Alice , and , after waiting till she fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window , she suddenly spread out her hand , and made a snatch in the air .
2 She did not get hold of anything , but she heard a little shriek and a fall , and a crash of broken glass , from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame , or something of the sort .
3 Next came an angry voice -- the Rabbit 's -- ` Pat !
4 Pat !
5 Where are you ? '
6 And then a voice she had never heard before , ` Sure then I 'm here !
7 Digging for apples , yer honour ! '
8 ` Digging for apples , indeed ! '
9 said the Rabbit angrily .
10 ` Here !
11 Come and help me out of THIS ! '
12 -LRB- Sounds of more broken glass . -RRB-
13 ` Now tell me , Pat , what 's that in the window ? '
14 ` Sure , it 's an arm , yer honour ! '
15 -LRB- He pronounced it ` arrum . ' -RRB-
16 ` An arm , you goose !
17 Who ever saw one that size ?
18 Why , it fills the whole window ! '
19 ` Sure , it does , yer honour : but it 's an arm for all that . '
20 ` Well , it 's got no business there , at any rate : go and take it away ! '
21 There was a long silence after this , and Alice could only hear whispers now and then ; such as , ` Sure , I do n't like it , yer XXXXX , at all , at all ! '	honour		Rabbit|air|arm|fall|glass|hand|honour|size|voice|window

1 None of his servants had come back yet , for they thought he was dead .
2 But the Nightingale sat and sang to him .
3 ` You must always stay with me ! '
4 said the Emperor .
5 ` You shall sing whenever you like , and I will break the artificial bird into a thousand pieces . '
6 ` Do n't do that ! '
7 said the Nightingale .
8 ` He did his work as long as he could .
9 Keep him as you have done !
10 I can not build my nest in the Palace and live here ; but let me come whenever I like .
11 I will sit in the evening on the bough outside the window , and I will sing you something that will make you feel happy and grateful .
12 I will sing of joy , and of sorrow ; I will sing of the evil and the good which lies hidden from you .
13 The little singing-bird flies all around , to the poor fisherman 's hut , to the farmer 's cottage , to all those who are far away from you and your Court .
14 I love your heart more than your crown , though that has about it a brightness as of something holy .
15 Now I will sing to you again ; but you must promise me one thing -- ' ` Anything ! '
16 said the Emperor , standing up in his Imperial robes , which he had himself put on , and fastening on his sword richly embossed with gold .
17 ` One thing I beg of you !
18 Do n't tell anyone that you have a little bird who tells you everything .
19 It will be much better not to ! '
20 Then the Nightingale flew away .
21 The XXXXX came in to look at their dead Emperor .	servants		Palace|cottage|crown|flies|hut|joy|pieces|servants|sword|window

1 Quick , Chuchundra , or I 'll bite you ! ''
2 Chuchundra sat down and cried till the tears rolled off his whiskers .
3 `` I am a very poor man , '' he sobbed .
4 `` I never had spirit enough to run out into the middle of the room .
5 H'sh !
6 I must n't tell you anything .
7 Ca n't you hear , Rikki-tikki ? ''
8 Rikki-tikki listened .
9 The house was as still as still , but he thought he could just catch the faintest scratch-scratch in the world -- a noise as faint as that of a wasp walking on a window-pane -- the dry scratch of a snake 's scales on brick-work .
10 `` That 's Nag or Nagaina , '' he said to himself , `` and he is crawling into the bath-room sluice .
11 You 're right , Chuchundra ; I should have talked to Chua . ''
12 He stole off to Teddy 's bath-room , but there was nothing there , and then to Teddy 's mother 's bathroom .
13 At the bottom of the smooth plaster wall there was a brick pulled out to make a sluice for the bath water , and as Rikki-tikki stole in by the masonry curb where the bath is put , he heard Nag and Nagaina whispering together outside in the moonlight .
14 `` When the house is emptied of people , '' said Nagaina to her husband , `` he will have to go away , and then the garden will be our own again .
15 Go in quietly , and remember that the big man who killed Karait is the first one to bite .
16 Then come out and tell me , and we will hunt for Rikki-tikki together . ''
17 `` But are you sure that there is anything to be gained by killing the people ? ''
18 said Nag .
19 `` Everything .
20 When there were no people in the bungalow , did we have any mongoose in the garden ?
21 So long as the bungalow is empty , we are king and queen of the XXXXX ; and remember that as soon as our eggs in the melon bed hatch -LRB- as they may tomorrow -RRB- , our children will need room and quiet . ''	garden		anything|bungalow|garden|middle|nothing|people|room|sluice|spirit|whiskers

1 But he is blind .
2 You must tell him all the prettiest stories you know . '
3 But Thumbelina did not trouble her head about him , for he was only a mole .
4 He came and paid them a visit in his black-velvet coat .
5 ` He is so rich and so accomplished , ' the field-mouse told her .
6 ` His house is twenty times larger than mine ; he possesses great knowledge , but he can not bear the sun and the beautiful flowers , and speaks slightingly of them , for he has never seen them . '
7 Thumbelina had to sing to him , so she sang ` Lady-bird , lady-bird , fly away home ! '
8 and other songs so prettily that the mole fell in love with her ; but he did not say anything , he was a very cautious man .
9 A short time before he had dug a long passage through the ground from his own house to that of his neighbour ; in this he gave the field-mouse and Thumbelina permission to walk as often as they liked .
10 But he begged them not to be afraid of the dead bird that lay in the passage : it was a real bird with beak and feathers , and must have died a little time ago , and now laid buried just where he had made his tunnel .
11 The mole took a piece of rotten wood in his mouth , for that glows like fire in the dark , and went in front , lighting them through the long dark passage .
12 When they came to the place where the dead bird lay , the mole put his broad nose against the ceiling and pushed a hole through , so that the daylight could shine down .
13 In the middle of the path lay a dead swallow , his pretty wings pressed close to his sides , his claws and head drawn under his feathers ; the poor bird had evidently died of cold .
14 Thumbelina was very sorry , for she was very fond of all little birds ; they had sung and twittered so beautifully to her all through the summer .
15 But the mole kicked him with his bandy legs and said : ` Now he ca n't sing any more !
16 It must be very miserable to be a little bird !
17 I 'm thankful that none of my little children are ; birds always starve in winter . '
18 ` Yes , you speak like a sensible man , ' said the field-mouse .
19 ` What has a bird , in spite of all his singing , in the winter-time ?
20 He must starve and freeze , and that must be very pleasant for him , I must say ! '
21 Thumbelina did not say anything ; but when the other two had passed on she bent down to the bird , brushed aside the feathers from his XXXXX , and kissed his closed eyes gently .	head		bird|birds|head|house|legs|mine|sides|spite|time|wood

1 She was a harsh woman , with a violent temper , and she had scolded and worried the boy all his short life .
2 Upton people said it was a shame , but nobody felt called upon to interfere .
3 Mrs. Elwell was not a person one would care to make an enemy of .
4 She eyed Chester sourly when he went in , expecting some request to be allowed to go with Henry , and prepared to refuse it sharply .
5 `` Aunt Harriet , '' said Chester suddenly , `` can I go to school this year ?
6 It begins tomorrow . ''
7 `` No , '' said Mrs. Elwell , when she had recovered from her surprise at this unexpected question .
8 `` You 've had schoolin ' in plenty -- more 'n I ever had , and all you 're goin ' to get ! ''
9 `` But , Aunt Harriet , '' persisted Chester , his face flushed with earnestness , `` I 'm nearly thirteen , and I can barely read and write a little .
10 The other boys are ever so far ahead of me .
11 I do n't know anything . ''
12 `` You know enough to be disrespectful ! ''
13 exclaimed Mrs. Elwell .
14 `` I suppose you want to go to school to idle away your time , as you do at home -- lazy good-for-nothing that you are ! ''
15 Chester thought of the drudgery that had been his portion all his life .
16 He resented being called lazy when he was willing enough to work , but he made one more appeal .
17 `` If you 'll let me go to school this year , I 'll work twice as hard out of school to make up for it -- indeed , I will .
18 Do let me go , Aunt Harriet .
19 I have n't been to school a day for over a year . ''
20 `` Let 's hear no more of this nonsense , '' said Mrs. Elwell , taking a bottle from the shelf above her with the air of one who closes a discussion .
21 `` Here , run down to the Bridge and get me this XXXXX full of vinegar at Jacob 's store .	bottle		Aunt|air|anything|bottle|boys|drudgery|nonsense|portion|request|shame

1 The King replied that it was only a short time since he had come there .
2 Red then asked him to send them both to cut down wood next morning , and see which of them could do most work .
3 Snati-Snati heard this and told it to Ring , advising him to ask the King for two axes , so that he might have one in reserve if the first one got broken .
4 Next morning the King asked Ring and Red to go and cut down trees for him , and both agreed .
5 Ring got the two axes , and each went his own way ; but when the Prince had got out into the wood Snati took one of the axes and began to hew along with him .
6 In the evening the King came to look over their day 's work , as Red had proposed , and found that Ring 's wood-heap was more than twice as big . '
7 I suspected , ' said the King , ` that Ring was not quite useless ; never have I seen such a day 's work . '
8 Ring was now in far greater esteem with the King than before , and Red was all the more discontented .
9 One day he came to the King and said , ` If Ring is such a mighty man , I think you might ask him to kill the wild oxen in the wood here , and flay them the same day , and bring you the horns and the hides in the evening . '
10 ` Do n't you think that a desperate errand ? '
11 said the King , ` seeing they are so dangerous , and no one has ever yet ventured to go against them ? '
12 Red answered that he had only one life to lose , and it would be interesting to see how brave he was ; besides , the King would have good reason to ennoble him if he overcame them .
13 The King at last allowed himself , though rather unwillingly , to be won over by Red 's persistency , and one day asked Ring to go and kill the oxen that were in the wood for him , and bring their horns and hides to him in the evening .
14 Not knowing how dangerous the oxen were , Ring was quite ready , and went off at once , to the great delight of Red , who was now sure of his death .
15 As soon as Ring came in sight of the oxen they came bellowing to meet him ; one of them was tremendously big , the other rather less .
16 Ring grew terribly afraid .
17 ` How do you like them ? '
18 asked Snati .
19 ` Not well at all , ' said the Prince .
20 ` We can do nothing else , ' said Snati , ` than attack them , if it is to go well ; you will go against the little one , and I shall take the other . '
21 With this Snati leapt at the big XXXXX , and was not long in bringing him down .	one		esteem|horns|life|man|morning|nothing|one|oxen|time|trees

1 But after a few hours , by the magic arts of the old witch , he was overpowered by sleep , and the mare and foal escaped and did as they had been told to do .
2 The Prince did not awake till late in the evening ; and when he did , he found , to his horror , that the horses had disappeared .
3 Filled with despair , he cursed the moment when he had entered the service of the cruel witch , and already he saw his head sticking up on the sharp spike beside the others .
4 Then he suddenly remembered the fish 's scale , which , with the eagle 's feather and the fox 's hairs , he always carried about with him .
5 He drew the scale from his pocket , and hurrying to the river he threw it in .
6 In a minute the grateful fish swam towards the bank on which Iwanich was standing , and said : ` What do you command , my friend and benefactor ? '
7 The Prince replied : ' I had to look after a mare and foal , and they have run away from me and have hidden themselves in the river ; if you wish to save my life drive them back to the land . '
8 ` Wait a moment , ' answered the fish , ` and I and my friends will soon drive them out of the water . '
9 With these words the creature disappeared into the depths of the stream .
10 Almost immediately a rushing hissing sound was heard in the waters , the waves dashed against the banks , the foam was tossed into the air , and the two horses leapt suddenly on to the dry land , trembling and shaking with fear .
11 Iwanich sprang at once on to the mare 's back , seized the foal by its bridle , and hastened home in the highest spirits .
12 When the witch saw the Prince bringing the horses home she could hardly conceal her wrath , and as soon as she had placed Iwanich 's supper before him she stole away again to the stables .
13 The Prince followed her , and heard her scolding the beasts harshly for not having hidden themselves better .
14 She bade them wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep and then to hide themselves in the clouds , and to remain there till she called .
15 If they did not do as she told them she would beat them till they bled .
16 The next morning , after Iwanich had led his horses to the fields , he fell once more into a magic sleep .
17 The horses at once ran away and hid themselves in the clouds , which hung down from the mountains in soft billowy masses .
18 When the Prince awoke and found that both the mare and the foal had disappeared , he bethought him at once of the eagle , and taking the feather out of his pocket he blew it into the air .
19 In a moment the bird swooped down beside him and asked : ` What do you wish me to do ? '
20 ` My mare and foal , ' replied the Prince , ` have run away from me , and have hidden themselves in the clouds ; if you wish to save my life , restore both animals to me . '
21 ` Wait a minute , ' answered the eagle ; ` with the help of my XXXXX I will soon drive them back to you . '	friends		air|bridle|fear|feather|fields|friends|life|mare|river|waves

1 ` Tell me , then , ' said the Irishman , ` what is the spell that has been laid on you , and how you can be freed from it . '
2 ` There is a little room there , ' said the Princess , ` and if I could get a man to stay in it from ten o'clock till midnight for three nights on end I should be freed from the spell . ' '
3 I am the man for you , then , ' said he ; ' I will take on hand to do it . '
4 Thereupon she brought him a pipe and tobacco , and he went into the room ; but before long he heard a hammering and knocking on the outside of the door , and was told to open it . '
5 I wo n't , ' he said .
6 The next moment the door came flying in , and those outside along with it .
7 They knocked him down , and kicked him , and knelt on his body till it came to midnight ; but as soon as the cock crew they all disappeared .
8 The Irishman was little more than alive by this time .
9 As soon as daylight appeared the Princess came , and found him lying full length on the floor , unable to speak a word .
10 She took a bottle , rubbed him from head to foot with something from it , and thereupon he was as sound as ever ; but after what he had got that night he was very unwilling to try it a second time .
11 The Princess , however , entreated him to stay , saying that the next night would not be so bad , and in the end he gave in and stayed .
12 When it was getting near midnight he heard them ordering him to open the door , and there were three of them for every one that there had been the previous evening .
13 He did not make the slightest movement to go out to them or to open the door , but before long they broke it up , and were in on top of him .
14 They laid hold of him , and kept throwing him between them up to the ceiling , or jumping above him , until the cock crew , when they all disappeared .
15 When day came the Princess went to the room to see if he was still alive , and taking the bottle put it to his nostrils , which soon brought him to himself .
16 The first thing he said then was that he was a fool to go on getting himself killed for anyone he ever saw , and was determined to be off and stay there no longer , When the Princess learned his intention she entreated him to stay , reminding him that another night would free her from the spell .
17 ` Besides , ' she said , ` if there is a single spark of life in you when the day comes , the stuff that is in this bottle will make you as sound as ever you were . '
18 With all this the Irishman decided to stay ; but that night there were three at him for every one that was there the two nights before , and it looked very unlikely that he would be alive in the morning after all that he got .
19 When morning dawned , and the Princess came to see if he was still alive , she found him lying on the floor as if dead .
20 She tried to see if there was breath in him , but could not quite make it out .
21 Then she put her hand on his pulse , and found a faint XXXXX in it .	movement		Thereupon|body|breath|day|door|life|movement|night|outside|time

1 He realized that , come what might , he would always have a good friend in Miss Salome -- aye , and in Clemantiny , too .
2 Chester never knew it , but after he had fallen asleep , with the tears still glistening on his brown cheeks , Clemantiny tiptoed silently in with a candle in her hand and bent over him with an expression of almost maternal tenderness on her face .
3 It was late and an aroma of boiling sugar hung about her .
4 She had sat up long after Miss Salome was abed , to boil another saucepan of taffy for Chester to eat on his journey .
5 `` Poor , dear child ! ''
6 she said , softly touching one of his crisp curls .
7 `` It 's a shame in Salome to insist on his going back .
8 She does n't know what she 's sending him to , or she would n't .
9 He did n't say much against his aunt , and Salome thinks she was only just a little bit cranky .
10 But I could guess . ''
11 Early in the morning Miss Salome and Chester started .
12 They were to drive to Montrose , leave their team there and take the boat for Belltown .
13 Chester bade farewell to the porch chamber and the long , white kitchen and the friendly barns with a full heart .
14 When he climbed into the wagon , Clemantiny put a big bagful of taffy into his hands .
15 `` Good-by , Chester , '' she said .
16 `` And remember , you 've always got a friend in me , anyhow . ''
17 Then Clemantiny went back into the kitchen and cried -- good , rough-spoken , tender-hearted Clemantiny sat down and cried .
18 It was an ideal day for travelling -- crisp , clear and sunny -- but neither Chester nor Miss Salome was in a mood for enjoyment .
19 Back over Chester 's runaway route they went , and reached Belltown on the boat that evening .
20 They stayed in Belltown overnight and in the morning took the train to Roxbury Station .
21 Here XXXXX Salome hired a team from the storekeeper and drove out to Upton .	Miss		Miss|Poor|bent|bit|candle|curls|route|shame|tears|wagon

1 `` Bah !
2 Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island .
3 If we went there they would say we were afraid .
4 We must preserve appearances , my dear . ''
5 Sea Catch sunk his head proudly between his fat shoulders and pretended to go to sleep for a few minutes , but all the time he was keeping a sharp lookout for a fight .
6 Now that all the seals and their wives were on the land , you could hear their clamor miles out to sea above the loudest gales .
7 At the lowest counting there were over a million seals on the beach -- old seals , mother seals , tiny babies , and holluschickie , fighting , scuffling , bleating , crawling , and playing together -- going down to the sea and coming up from it in gangs and regiments , lying over every foot of ground as far as the eye could reach , and skirmishing about in brigades through the fog .
8 It is nearly always foggy at Novastoshnah , except when the sun comes out and makes everything look all pearly and rainbow-colored for a little while .
9 Kotick , Matkah 's baby , was born in the middle of that confusion , and he was all head and shoulders , with pale , watery blue eyes , as tiny seals must be , but there was something about his coat that made his mother look at him very closely .
10 `` Sea Catch , '' she said , at last , `` our baby 's going to be white ! ''
11 `` Empty clam-shells and dry seaweed ! ''
12 snorted Sea Catch .
13 `` There never has been such a thing in the world as a white seal . ''
14 `` I ca n't help that , '' said Matkah ; `` there 's going to be now . ''
15 And she sang the low , crooning seal song that all the mother seals sing to their babies : You must n't swim till you 're six weeks old , Or your head will be sunk by your heels ; And summer gales and Killer Whales Are bad for baby seals .
16 Are bad for baby seals , dear rat , As bad as bad can be ; But splash and grow strong , And you ca n't be wrong .
17 Child of the Open Sea !
18 Of course the little fellow did not understand the words at first .
19 He paddled and scrambled about by his mother 's side , and learned to scuffle out of the way when his father was fighting with another seal , and the two rolled and roared up and down the slippery rocks .
20 Matkah used to go to sea to get things to eat , and the baby was fed only once in two days , but then he ate all he could and throve upon it .
21 The first XXXXX he did was to crawl inland , and there he met tens of thousands of babies of his own age , and they played together like puppies , went to sleep on the clean sand , and played again .	thing		Sea|appearances|everything|fellow|middle|seal|something|sun|thing|wives

1 and , so saying , he filled his pocket with the mud .
2 But the brothers rode on so fast that dust and sparks flew all around , and they reached the gate of the town a good hour before Blockhead-Hans .
3 Here came the suitors numbered according to their arrival , and they were ranged in rows , six in each row , and they were so tightly packed that they could not move their arms .
4 This was a very good thing , for otherwise they would have torn each other in pieces , merely because the one was in front of the other .
5 All the country people were standing round the King 's throne , and were crowded together in thick masses almost out of the windows to see the Princess receive the suitors ; and as each one came into the room all his fine phrases went out like a candle !
6 ` It does n't matter ! '
7 said the Princess .
8 ` Away !
9 out with him ! '
10 At last she came to the row in which the brother who knew the dictionary by heart was , but he did not know it any longer ; he had quite forgotten it in the rank and file .
11 And the floor creaked , and the ceiling was all made of glass mirrors , so that he saw himself standing on his head , and by each window were standing three reporters and an editor ; and each of them was writing down what was said , to publish it in the paper that came out and was sold at the street corners for a penny .
12 It was fearful , and they had made up the fire so hot that it was grilling .
13 ` It is hot in here , is n't it ! '
14 said the suitor .
15 ` Of course it is !
16 My father is roasting young chickens to-day ! '
17 said the Princess .
18 ` Ahem ! '
19 There he stood like an idiot .
20 He was not prepared for such a speech ; he did not know what to say , although he wanted to say something witty .
21 ` XXXXX ! '	Ahem		Ahem|brother|brothers|chickens|father|front|pocket|reporters|row|rows

1 `` Wo n't you explain that , please ?
2 Hhrrmph !
3 Rrrt !
4 Rrrmph !
5 Rrrhha ! ''
6 Then he stopped suddenly , and I heard a little whimper in the dark , and knew that Vixen had found me at last .
7 She knew as well as I did that if there is one thing in the world the elephant is more afraid of than another it is a little barking dog .
8 So she stopped to bully Two Tails in his pickets , and yapped round his big feet .
9 Two Tails shuffled and squeaked .
10 `` Go away , little dog ! ''
11 he said .
12 `` Do n't snuff at my ankles , or I 'll kick at you .
13 Good little dog -- nice little doggie , then !
14 Go home , you yelping little beast !
15 Oh , why does n't someone take her away ?
16 She 'll bite me in a minute . ''
17 `` Seems to me , '' said Billy to the troop horse , `` that our friend Two Tails is afraid of most things .
18 Now , if I had a full meal for every dog I 've kicked across the parade-ground I should be as fat as Two Tails nearly . ''
19 I whistled , and Vixen ran up to me , muddy all over , and licked my nose , and told me a long tale about hunting for me all through the camp .
20 I never let her know that I understood beast talk , or she would have taken all sorts of liberties .
21 So I buttoned her into the breast of my overcoat , and Two XXXXX shuffled and stamped and growled to himself .	Tails		I|Tails|dog|feet|meal|pickets|someone|thing|whimper|world

1 The architecture was imposing , and in the interior the rooms were handsome and furnished in the best possible taste .
2 The Princess , who expected to be quite alone , was pleased at finding herself surrounded by a number of pretty girls , all anxious to wait on her , whilst a brilliantly-coloured parrot said the most agreeable things in the world .
3 On arriving at this palace the King had resumed his own form , and though no longer young , he might well have pleased any other than this Princess , who had been so prejudiced against him by his violence that she could only regard him with feelings of hatred , which she was at no pains to conceal .
4 The King hoped , however , that time might not only soften her anger , but accustom her to his sight .
5 He took the precaution of surrounding the palace with a dense cloud , and then hastened to his Court , where his prolonged absence was causing much anxiety .
6 The Prince and all the courtiers were delighted to see their beloved King again , but they had to submit themselves to more frequent absences than ever on his part .
7 He made business a pretext for shutting himself up in his study , but it was really in order to spend the time with the Princess , who remained inflexible .
8 Not being able to imagine what could be the cause of so much obstinacy the King began to fear , lest , in spite of all his precautions , she might have heard of the charms of the Prince his son , whose goodness , youth and beauty , made him adored at Court .
9 This idea made him horribly uneasy , and he resolved to remove the cause of his fears by sending the Prince on his travels escorted by a magnificent retinue .
10 The Prince , after visiting several Courts , arrived at the one where the lost Princess was still deeply mourned .
11 The King and Queen received him most graciously , and some festivities were revived to do him honour .
12 One day when the Prince was visiting the Queen in her own apartments he was much struck by a most beautiful portrait .
13 He eagerly inquired whose it was , and the Queen , with many tears , told him it was all that was left her of her beloved daughter , who had suddenly been carried off , she knew neither where nor how .
14 The Prince was deeply moved , and vowed that he would search the world for the Princess , and take no rest till he had found and restored her to her mother 's arms .
15 The Queen assured him of her eternal gratitude , and promised , should he succeed , to give him her daughter in marriage , together with all the estates she herself owned .
16 The Prince , far more attracted by the thoughts of possessing the Princess than her promised dower , set forth in his quest after taking leave of the King and Queen , the latter giving him a miniature of her daughter which she was in the habit of wearing .
17 His first act was to seek the Fairy under whose protection he had been placed , and he implored her to give him all the assistance of her art and counsel in this important matter .
18 After listening attentively to the whole adventure , the Fairy asked for time to consult her books .
19 After due consideration she informed the Prince that the object of his search was not far distant , but that it was too difficult for him to attempt to enter the enchanted palace where she was , as the King his father had surrounded it with a thick cloud , and that the only expedient she could think of would be to gain possession of the Princess 's parrot .
20 This , she added , did not appear impossible , as it often flew about to some distance in the neighbourhood .
21 Having told the Prince all this , the Fairy went out in hopes of seeing the XXXXX , and soon returned with the bird in her hand .	parrot		absence|apartments|arms|beauty|charms|neighbourhood|parrot|precaution|rest|travels

1 But all at once it flashed across him that there was a little end of tinder in the tinder-box , which he had taken from the hollow tree into which the Witch had helped him down .
2 He found the box with the tinder in it ; but just as he was kindling a light , and had struck a spark out of the tinder-box , the door burst open , and the dog with eyes as large as saucers , which he had seen down in the tree , stood before him and said : ` What does my lord command ? '
3 ` What 's the meaning of this ? '
4 exclaimed the Soldier .
5 ` This is a pretty kind of tinder-box , if I can get whatever I want like this .
6 Get me money ! '
7 he cried to the dog , and hey , presto !
8 he was off and back again , holding a great purse full of money in his mouth .
9 Now the Soldier knew what a capital tinder-box this was .
10 If he rubbed once , the dog that sat on the chest of copper appeared ; if he rubbed twice , there came the dog that watched over the silver chest ; and if he rubbed three times , the one that guarded the gold appeared .
11 Now , the Soldier went down again to his beautiful rooms , and appeared once more in splendid clothes .
12 All his friends immediately recognised him again , and paid him great court .
13 One day he thought to himself : ` It is very strange that no one can get to see the Princess .
14 They all say she is very pretty , but what 's the use of that if she has to sit for ever in the great copper castle with all the towers ?
15 Can I not manage to see her somehow ?
16 Where is my tinder-box ? '
17 and so he struck a spark , and , presto !
18 there came the dog with eyes as large as saucers .
19 ` It is the middle of the night , I know , ' said the Soldier ; ` but I should very much like to see the Princess for a moment . '
20 The dog was already outside the door , and before the Soldier could look round , in he came with the Princess .
21 She was lying asleep on the XXXXX 's back , and was so beautiful that anyone could see she was a real Princess .	dog		capital|court|dog|door|friends|hey|kind|meaning|round|use

1 After that , she sent him to the garden to pick the early beans .
2 In the evening he milked three cows and did all the chores , falling into the ways of the place with a deft adaptability that went far to soften Clemantiny 's heart .
3 `` He 's been taught to work somewheres , '' she admitted grudgingly , `` and he 's real polite and respectful .
4 But he looks too cute by half .
5 And his name is n't Benson any more than mine .
6 When I called him ` Chester Benson ' out there in the cow-yard , he stared at me fer half a minute ` sif I 'd called him Nebuchadnezzar . ''
7 When bedtime came , Miss Salome took Chester up to a room whose whiteness and daintiness quite took away the breath of a lad who had been used to sleeping in garrets or hired men 's kitchen chambers all his life .
8 Later on Miss Salome came in to see if he was comfortable , and stood , with her candle in her hand , looking down very kindly at the thin , shrewd little face on the pillow .
9 `` I hope you 'll sleep real well here , Chester , '' she said .
10 `` I had a little boy once who used to sleep here .
11 You -- you look like him .
12 Good night . ''
13 She bent over him and kissed his forehead .
14 Chester had never been kissed by anyone before , so far as he could remember .
15 Something came up in his throat that felt about as big as a pumpkin .
16 At the same moment he wished he could have told Miss Salome the whole truth about himself .
17 I might tell her in the morning , he thought , as he watched her figure passing out of the little porch chamber .
18 But on second thought he decided that this would never do .
19 He felt sure she would disapprove of his running away , and would probably insist upon his going straight back to Upton or , at least , informing Aunt Harriet of his whereabouts .
20 No , he could not tell her .
21 Clemantiny was an early riser , but when she came into the kitchen the next morning the fire was already made and Chester was out in the yard with three of the five XXXXX milked .	cows		anyone|candle|cows|forehead|garden|men|pumpkin|somewheres|ways|whiteness

1 she said , without even looking round .
2 ` I 'll fetch the executioner myself , ' said the King eagerly , and he hurried off .
3 Alice thought she might as well go back , and see how the game was going on , as she heard the Queen 's voice in the distance , screaming with passion .
4 She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns , and she did not like the look of things at all , as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not .
5 So she went in search of her hedgehog .
6 The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog , which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other : the only difficulty was , that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden , where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree .
7 By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back , the fight was over , and both the hedgehogs were out of sight : ` but it does n't matter much , ' thought Alice , ` as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground . '
8 So she tucked it away under her arm , that it might not escape again , and went back for a little more conversation with her friend .
9 When she got back to the Cheshire Cat , she was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it : there was a dispute going on between the executioner , the King , and the Queen , who were all talking at once , while all the rest were quite silent , and looked very uncomfortable .
10 The moment Alice appeared , she was appealed to by all three to settle the question , and they repeated their arguments to her , though , as they all spoke at once , she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said .
11 The executioner 's argument was , that you could n't cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from : that he had never had to do such a thing before , and he was n't going to begin at HIS time of life .
12 The King 's argument was , that anything that had a head could be beheaded , and that you were n't to talk nonsense .
13 The Queen 's argument was , that if something was n't done about it in less than no time she 'd have everybody executed , all round .
14 -LRB- It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious . -RRB-
15 Alice could think of nothing else to say but ` It belongs to the Duchess : you 'd better ask HER about it . '
16 ` She 's in prison , ' the Queen said to the executioner : ` fetch her here . '
17 And the executioner went off like an arrow .
18 The Cat 's head began fading away the moment he was gone , and , by the time he had come back with the Duchess , it had entirely disappeared ; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it , while the rest of the party went back to the game .
19 CHAPTER IX .
20 The Mock Turtle 's Story ` You ca n't think how glad I am to see you again , you dear old thing ! '
21 said the Duchess , as she tucked her XXXXX affectionately into Alice 's , and they walked off together .	arm		arm|body|difficulty|distance|friend|passion|rest|round|sight|time

1 If she managed to get across it , they must throw the comb behind them and run for their lives , for where the comb fell a dense forest would start up , which would delay the witch so long that they would be able to get safely away .
2 The cat had scarcely finished speaking when the witch returned to see if the children had fulfilled their tasks .
3 ` Well , you have done well enough for to-day , ' she grumbled ; ` but to-morrow you 'll have something more difficult to do , and if you do n't do it well , you pampered brats , straight into the oven you go . '
4 Half-dead with fright , and trembling in every limb , the poor children lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dared not close their eyes , and scarcely ventured to breathe .
5 In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips .
6 Then the witch left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood .
7 As soon as she had gone out of sight the children took the comb and the handkerchief , and , taking one another by the hand , they started and ran , and ran , and ran .
8 And first they met the watch-dog , who was going to leap on them and tear them to pieces ; but they threw the remains of their bread to him , and he ate them and wagged his tail .
9 Then they were hindered by the birch-trees , whose branches almost put their eyes out .
10 But the little sister tied the twigs together with a piece of ribbon , and they got past safely , and , after running through the wood , came out on to the open fields .
11 In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen and tangling the threads as it wove .
12 And the witch returned to see how the children were getting on ; and she crept up to the window , and whispered : ` Are you weaving , my little dear ? '
13 ` Yes , granny , I am weaving , ' answered the cat .
14 When the witch saw that the children had escaped her , she was furious , and , hitting the cat with a porringer , she said : ` Why did you let the children leave the hut ?
15 Why did you not scratch their eyes out ? '
16 But the cat curled up its tail and put its back up , and answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never even threw me a bone , but the dear children gave me their own piece of ham . '
17 Then the witch was furious with the watch-dog and with the birch-trees , because they had let the children pass .
18 But the dog answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never gave me so much as a hard crust , but the dear children gave me their own loaf of bread . '
19 And the birch rustled its leaves , and said : ' I have served you longer than I can say , and you never tied a bit of twine even round my branches ; and the dear children bound them up with their brightest ribbons . '
20 So the witch saw there was no help to be got from her old servants , and that the best thing she could do was to mount on her broom and set off in pursuit of the children .
21 And as the children ran they heard the sound of the broom sweeping the ground close behind them , so instantly they threw the XXXXX down over their shoulder , and in a moment a deep , broad river flowed behind them .	handkerchief		bread|handkerchief|limb|lives|oven|pieces|speaking|thing|witch|wood

1 After wandering through many marble halls , he came to a huge staircase made of porphyry , leading down to a lovely garden .
2 The Prince burst into a shout of joy when he suddenly perceived Militza in the centre of a group of girls who were weaving wreaths of flowers with which to deck their mistress .
3 As soon as Militza saw the Prince she ran up to him and embraced him tenderly ; and after he had told her all his adventures , they went into the palace , where a sumptuous meal awaited them .
4 Then the Princess called her court together , and introduced Iwanich to them as her future husband .
5 Preparations were at once made for the wedding , which was held soon after with great pomp and magnificence .
6 Three months of great happiness followed , when Militza received one day an invitation to visit her mother 's sister .
7 Although the Princess was very unhappy at leaving her husband , she did not like to refuse the invitation , and , promising to return in seven days at the latest , she took a tender farewell of the Prince , and said : ` Before I go I will hand you over all the keys of the castle .
8 Go everywhere and do anything you like ; only one thing I beg and beseech you , do not open the little iron door in the north tower , which is closed with seven locks and seven bolts ; for if you do , we shall both suffer for it . '
9 Iwanich promised what she asked , and Militza departed , repeating her promise to return in seven days .
10 When the Prince found himself alone he began to be tormented by pangs of curiosity as to what the room in the tower contained .
11 For two days he resisted the temptation to go and look , but on the third he could stand it no longer , and taking a torch in his hand he hurried to the tower , and unfastened one lock after the other of the little iron door until it burst open .
12 What an unexpected sight met his gaze !
13 The Prince perceived a small room black with smoke , lit up feebly by a fire from which issued long blue flames .
14 Over the fire hung a huge cauldron full of boiling pitch , and fastened into the cauldron by iron chains stood a wretched man screaming with agony .
15 Iwanich was much horrified at the sight before him , and asked the man what terrible crime he had committed to be punished in this dreadful fashion . '
16 I will tell you everything , ' said the man in the cauldron ; ` but first relieve my torments a little , I implore you . '
17 ` And how can I do that ? '
18 asked the Prince .
19 ` With a little water , ' replied the man ; ` only sprinkle a few drops over me and I shall feel better . '
20 The Prince , moved by pity , without thinking what he was doing , ran to the courtyard of the castle , and filled a jug with water , which he poured over the man in the cauldron .
21 In a moment a most fearful crash was heard , as if all the pillars of the palace were giving way , and the XXXXX itself , with towers and doors , windows and the cauldron , whirled round the bewildered Prince 's head .	palace		Preparations|courtyard|lock|magnificence|mother|palace|pitch|room|smoke|wedding

1 He did n't care for pride any longer ; he just cried and did n't even pretend he was n't crying when Miss Salome came in to sit by him a little while and talk to him .
2 That talk comforted Chester .
3 He realized that , come what might , he would always have a good friend in Miss Salome -- aye , and in Clemantiny , too .
4 Chester never knew it , but after he had fallen asleep , with the tears still glistening on his brown cheeks , Clemantiny tiptoed silently in with a candle in her hand and bent over him with an expression of almost maternal tenderness on her face .
5 It was late and an aroma of boiling sugar hung about her .
6 She had sat up long after Miss Salome was abed , to boil another saucepan of taffy for Chester to eat on his journey .
7 `` Poor , dear child ! ''
8 she said , softly touching one of his crisp curls .
9 `` It 's a shame in Salome to insist on his going back .
10 She does n't know what she 's sending him to , or she would n't .
11 He did n't say much against his aunt , and Salome thinks she was only just a little bit cranky .
12 But I could guess . ''
13 Early in the morning Miss Salome and Chester started .
14 They were to drive to Montrose , leave their team there and take the boat for Belltown .
15 Chester bade farewell to the porch chamber and the long , white kitchen and the friendly barns with a full heart .
16 When he climbed into the wagon , Clemantiny put a big bagful of taffy into his hands .
17 `` Good-by , Chester , '' she said .
18 `` And remember , you 've always got a friend in me , anyhow . ''
19 Then Clemantiny went back into the kitchen and cried -- good , rough-spoken , tender-hearted Clemantiny sat down and cried .
20 It was an ideal day for travelling -- crisp , clear and sunny -- but neither Chester nor Miss Salome was in a mood for enjoyment .
21 Back over Chester 's runaway route they went , and reached Belltown on the XXXXX that evening .	boat		Miss|Poor|aye|boat|cheeks|child|friend|tenderness|wagon|while

1 ` My esteemed little Nightingale , ' said the First Lord , ' I have the great pleasure to invite you to Court this evening , where His Gracious Imperial Highness will be enchanted with your charming song ! '
2 ` It sounds best in the green wood , ' said the Nightingale ; but still , she came gladly when she heard that the Emperor wished it .
3 At the Palace everything was splendidly prepared .
4 The porcelain walls and floors glittered in the light of many thousand gold lamps ; the most gorgeous flowers which tinkled out well were placed in the corridors .
5 There was such a hurrying and draught that all the bells jingled so much that one could not hear oneself speak .
6 In the centre of the great hall where the Emperor sat was a golden perch , on which the Nightingale sat .
7 The whole Court was there , and the little kitchenmaid was allowed to stand behind the door , now that she was a Court-cook .
8 Everyone was dressed in his best , and everyone was looking towards the little grey bird to whom the Emperor nodded .
9 The Nightingale sang so gloriously that the tears came into the Emperor 's eyes and ran down his cheeks .
10 Then the Nightingale sang even more beautifully ; it went straight to all hearts .
11 The Emperor was so delighted that he said she should wear his gold slipper round her neck .
12 But the Nightingale thanked him , and said she had had enough reward already . '
13 I have seen tears in the Emperor 's eyes -- that is a great reward .
14 An Emperor 's tears have such power ! '
15 Then she sang again with her gloriously sweet voice .
16 ` That is the most charming coquetry I have ever seen ! '
17 said all the ladies round .
18 And they all took to holding water in their mouths that they might gurgle whenever anyone spoke to them .
19 Then they thought themselves nightingales .
20 Yes , the lackeys and chambermaids announced that they were pleased ; which means a great deal , for they are the most difficult people of all to satisfy .
21 In short , the XXXXX was a real success .	Nightingale		Nightingale|anyone|draught|hall|lackeys|nightingales|perch|tears|water|wood

1 I am off to the King 's Court , ' he answered .
2 ` He has promised to give his daughter to whoever can make a flying ship . '
3 ` And can you make such a ship ? '
4 ` Not I. ' ` Then why in the world are you going ? '
5 ` Ca n't tell , ' replied the Simpleton .
6 ` Well , if that is the case , ' said the manikin , ` sit down beside me ; we can rest for a little and have something to eat .
7 Give me what you have got in your satchel . '
8 Now , the poor Simpleton was ashamed to show what was in it .
9 However , he thought it best not to make a fuss , so he opened the satchel , and could scarcely believe his own eyes , for , instead of the hard crust , he saw two beautiful fresh rolls and some cold meat .
10 He shared them with the manikin , who licked his lips and said : ` Now , go into that wood , and stop in front of the first tree , bow three times , and then strike the tree with your axe , fall on your knees on the ground , with your face on the earth , and remain there till you are raised up .
11 You will then find a ship at your side , step into it and fly to the King 's Palace .
12 If you meet anyone on the way , take him with you . '
13 The Simpleton thanked the manikin very kindly , bade him farewell , and went into the road .
14 When he got to the first tree he stopped in front of it , did everything just as he had been told , and , kneeling on the ground with his face to the earth , fell asleep .
15 After a little time he was aroused ; he awoke and , rubbing his eyes , saw a ready-made ship at his side , and at once got into it .
16 And the ship rose and rose , and in another minute was flying through the air , when the Simpleton , who was on the look out , cast his eyes down to the earth and saw a man beneath him on the road , who was kneeling with his ear upon the damp ground .
17 ` Hallo ! '
18 he called out , ` what are you doing down there ? ' '
19 I am listening to what is going on in the world , ' replied the man .
20 ` Come with me in my ship , ' said the Simpleton .
21 So the man was only too glad , and got in beside him ; and the ship flew , and flew , and flew through the air , till again from his outlook the Simpleton saw a XXXXX on the road below , who was hopping on one leg , while his other leg was tied up behind his ear .	man		air|ear|eyes|fall|fuss|knees|man|manikin|times|world

1 Oh , I am so unhappy !
2 July Twenty-sixth .
3 I am the happiest girl in the world !
4 That is quite a different strain from yesterday .
5 We leave Fir Cottage in an hour , but that does n't matter now .
6 I did not sleep a wink last night and crawled miserably down to breakfast .
7 Aunt took not the slightest notice of me , but to my surprise she told Mrs. Saxby that she intended taking a farewell walk to the shore .
8 I knew I would be taken , too , to be kept out of mischief , and my heart gave a great bound of hope .
9 Perhaps I would have a chance to send word to Francis , since Aunt did not know of the part my spyglass had played in my bad behaviour .
10 I meekly followed my grim guardians to the shore and sat dejectedly on my rug while they paced the sand .
11 Francis was on the rocks .
12 As soon as Aunt Martha and Mrs. Saxby were at a safe distance , I began my message : `` All discovered .
13 Aunt is very angry .
14 We go home today . ''
15 Then I snatched my glass .
16 His face expressed the direst consternation and dismay .
17 He signalled : `` I must see you before you go . ''
18 `` Impossible .
19 Aunt will never forgive me .
20 Good-bye . ''
21 I saw a look of desperate determination cross his XXXXX .	face		distance|face|girl|heart|message|rocks|shore|surprise|today|wink

1 ` That 's the first question , you know . '
2 It was , no doubt : only Alice did not like to be told so .
3 ` It 's really dreadful , ' she muttered to herself , ` the way all the creatures argue .
4 It 's enough to drive one crazy ! '
5 The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark , with variations . '
6 I shall sit here , ' he said , ` on and off , for days and days . '
7 ` But what am I to do ? '
8 said Alice .
9 ` Anything you like , ' said the Footman , and began whistling .
10 ` Oh , there 's no use in talking to him , ' said Alice desperately : ` he 's perfectly idiotic ! '
11 And she opened the door and went in .
12 The door led right into a large kitchen , which was full of smoke from one end to the other : the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in the middle , nursing a baby ; the cook was leaning over the fire , stirring a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup .
13 ` There 's certainly too much pepper in that soup ! '
14 Alice said to herself , as well as she could for sneezing .
15 There was certainly too much of it in the air .
16 Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally ; and as for the baby , it was sneezing and howling alternately without a moment 's pause .
17 The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze , were the cook , and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from ear to ear .
18 ` Please would you tell me , ' said Alice , a little timidly , for she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first , ` why your cat grins like that ? '
19 ` It 's a Cheshire cat , ' said the Duchess , ` and that 's why .
20 Pig ! '
21 She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite jumped ; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the XXXXX , and not to her , so she took courage , and went on again : -- ' I did n't know that Cheshire cats always grinned ; in fact , I did n't know that cats COULD grin . '	baby		Anything|baby|cook|hearth|manners|moment|pepper|question|remark|way

1 ` Do let me try , ' said the youth , ` whether I can do these wonderful things . '
2 The maiden , suspecting no treachery , gave him the magic ring .
3 The youth pretended to have forgotten what to do , and asked what finger he must put the ring on so that no sharp weapon could hurt him ? '
4 ` Oh , the middle finger of your left hand , ' the maiden answered , laughing .
5 She took the knife and tried to strike the youth , and he even tried to cut himself with it , but found it impossible .
6 Then he asked the maiden to show him how to split stones and rocks with the help of the ring .
7 So she led him into a courtyard where stood a great boulder-stone .
8 ` Now , ' she said , ` put the ring upon the thumb of your left hand , and you will see how strong that hand has become .
9 The youth did so , and found to his astonishment that with a single blow of his fist the stone flew into a thousand pieces .
10 Then the youth bethought him that he who does not use his luck when he has it is a fool , and that this was a chance which once lost might never return .
11 So while they stood laughing at the shattered stone he placed the ring , as if in play , upon the third finger of his left hand .
12 ` Now , ' said the maiden , ` you are invisible to me until you take the ring off again . '
13 But the youth had no mind to do that ; on the contrary , he went farther off , then put the ring on the little finger of his left hand , and soared into the air like a bird .
14 When the maiden saw him flying away she thought at first that he was still in play , and cried , ` Come back , friend , for now you see I have told you the truth . '
15 But the young man never came back .
16 Then the maiden saw she was deceived , and bitterly repented that she had ever trusted him with the ring .
17 The young man never halted in his flight until he reached the dwelling of the wise magician who had taught him the speech of birds .
18 The magician was delighted to find that his search had been successful , and at once set to work to interpret the secret signs engraved upon the ring , but it took him seven weeks to make them out clearly .
19 Then he gave the youth the following instructions how to overcome the Dragon of the North : ` You must have an iron horse cast , which must have little wheels under each foot .
20 You must also be armed with a spear two fathoms long , which you will be able to wield by means of the magic ring upon your left thumb .
21 The XXXXX must be as thick in the middle as a large tree , and both its ends must be sharp .	spear		Dragon|North|air|astonishment|courtyard|finger|fist|man|pieces|spear

1 ` What would become of a dolt like you ? '
2 she answered .
3 ` Why , you would be eaten up by wolves . '
4 But the foolish youth kept repeating , ' I will go , I will go , I will go ! '
5 Seeing that she could do nothing with him , the mother gave him a crust of bread and a bottle of water , and took no further heed of him .
6 So the Simpleton set off on his way .
7 When he had gone a short distance he met a little old manikin .
8 They greeted one another , and the manikin asked him where he was going . '
9 I am off to the King 's Court , ' he answered .
10 ` He has promised to give his daughter to whoever can make a flying ship . '
11 ` And can you make such a ship ? '
12 ` Not I. ' ` Then why in the world are you going ? '
13 ` Ca n't tell , ' replied the Simpleton .
14 ` Well , if that is the case , ' said the manikin , ` sit down beside me ; we can rest for a little and have something to eat .
15 Give me what you have got in your satchel . '
16 Now , the poor Simpleton was ashamed to show what was in it .
17 However , he thought it best not to make a fuss , so he opened the satchel , and could scarcely believe his own eyes , for , instead of the hard crust , he saw two beautiful fresh rolls and some cold meat .
18 He shared them with the manikin , who licked his lips and said : ` Now , go into that wood , and stop in front of the first tree , bow three times , and then strike the tree with your axe , fall on your knees on the ground , with your face on the earth , and remain there till you are raised up .
19 You will then find a ship at your side , step into it and fly to the King 's Palace .
20 If you meet anyone on the way , take him with you . '
21 The XXXXX thanked the manikin very kindly , bade him farewell , and went into the road .	Simpleton		Simpleton|case|crust|daughter|eyes|fall|nothing|rolls|world|youth

1 ` There 's a great deal to come before that ! '
2 ` Call the first witness , ' said the King ; and the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and called out , ` First witness ! '
3 The first witness was the Hatter .
4 He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other . '
5 I beg pardon , your Majesty , ' he began , ` for bringing these in : but I had n't quite finished my tea when I was sent for . '
6 ` You ought to have finished , ' said the King .
7 ` When did you begin ? '
8 The Hatter looked at the March Hare , who had followed him into the court , arm-in-arm with the Dormouse .
9 ` Fourteenth of March , I think it was , ' he said .
10 ` Fifteenth , ' said the March Hare .
11 ` Sixteenth , ' added the Dormouse .
12 ` Write that down , ' the King said to the jury , and the jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates , and then added them up , and reduced the answer to shillings and pence .
13 ` Take off your hat , ' the King said to the Hatter .
14 ` It is n't mine , ' said the Hatter .
15 ` Stolen ! '
16 the King exclaimed , turning to the jury , who instantly made a memorandum of the fact . '
17 I keep them to sell , ' the Hatter added as an explanation ; ` I 've none of my own .
18 I 'm a hatter . '
19 Here the Queen put on her spectacles , and began staring at the Hatter , who turned pale and fidgeted .
20 ` Give your evidence , ' said the King ; ` and do n't be nervous , or I 'll have you executed on the spot . '
21 This did not seem to encourage the XXXXX at all : he kept shifting from one foot to the other , looking uneasily at the Queen , and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter .	witness		Majesty|deal|evidence|explanation|hand|hat|memorandum|piece|spot|witness

1 And the birch rustled its leaves , and said : ' I have served you longer than I can say , and you never tied a bit of twine even round my branches ; and the dear children bound them up with their brightest ribbons . '
2 So the witch saw there was no help to be got from her old servants , and that the best thing she could do was to mount on her broom and set off in pursuit of the children .
3 And as the children ran they heard the sound of the broom sweeping the ground close behind them , so instantly they threw the handkerchief down over their shoulder , and in a moment a deep , broad river flowed behind them .
4 When the witch came up to it , it took her a long time before she found a place which she could ford over on her broom-stick ; but at last she got across , and continued the chase faster than before .
5 And as the children ran they heard a sound , and the little sister put her ear to the ground , and heard the broom sweeping the earth close behind them ; so , quick as thought , she threw the comb down on the ground , and in an instant , as the cat had said , a dense forest sprung up , in which the roots and branches were so closely intertwined , that it was impossible to force a way through it .
6 So when the witch came up to it on her broom she found that there was nothing for it but to turn round and go back to her hut .
7 But the twins ran straight on till they reached their own home .
8 Then they told their father all that they had suffered , and he was so angry with their step-mother that he drove her out of the house , and never let her return ; but he and the children lived happily together ; and he took care of them himself , and never let a stranger come near them .
9 THE HAZEL-NUT CHILD -LRB- 29 -RRB- -LRB- 29 -RRB- From the Bukowniaer .
10 Van Wliolocki .
11 There was once upon a time a couple who had no children , and they prayed Heaven every day to send them a child , though it were no bigger than a hazel-nut .
12 At last Heaven heard their prayer and sent them a child exactly the size of a hazel-nut , and it never grew an inch .
13 The parents were very devoted to the little creature , and nursed and tended it carefully .
14 Their tiny son too was as clever as he could be , and so sharp and sensible that all the neighbours marvelled over the wise things he said and did .
15 When the Hazel-nut child was fifteen years old , and was sitting one day in an egg-shell on the table beside his mother , she turned to him and said , ` You are now fifteen years old , and nothing can be done with you .
16 What do you intend to be ? ' '
17 A messenger , ' answered the Hazel-nut child .
18 Then his mother burst out laughing and said , ` What an idea !
19 You a messenger !
20 Why , your little feet would take an hour to go the distance an ordinary person could do in a minute ! '
21 But the Hazel-nut XXXXX replied , ` Nevertheless I mean to be a messenger !	child		chase|child|couple|creature|ear|hut|moment|son|twins|witch

1 `` We be one blood , thou and I , '' Mowgli answered .
2 `` I take my life from thee tonight .
3 My kill shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry , O Kaa . ''
4 `` All thanks , Little Brother , '' said Kaa , though his eyes twinkled .
5 `` And what may so bold a hunter kill ?
6 I ask that I may follow when next he goes abroad . ''
7 `` I kill nothing , -- I am too little , -- but I drive goats toward such as can use them .
8 When thou art empty come to me and see if I speak the truth .
9 I have some skill in these -LSB- he held out his hands -RSB- , and if ever thou art in a trap , I may pay the debt which I owe to thee , to Bagheera , and to Baloo , here .
10 Good hunting to ye all , my masters . ''
11 `` Well said , '' growled Baloo , for Mowgli had returned thanks very prettily .
12 The Python dropped his head lightly for a minute on Mowgli 's shoulder .
13 `` A brave heart and a courteous tongue , '' said he .
14 `` They shall carry thee far through the jungle , manling .
15 But now go hence quickly with thy friends .
16 Go and sleep , for the moon sets , and what follows it is not well that thou shouldst see . ''
17 The moon was sinking behind the hills and the lines of trembling monkeys huddled together on the walls and battlements looked like ragged shaky fringes of things .
18 Baloo went down to the tank for a drink and Bagheera began to put his fur in order , as Kaa glided out into the center of the terrace and brought his jaws together with a ringing snap that drew all the monkeys ' eyes upon him .
19 `` The moon sets , '' he said .
20 `` Is there yet light enough to see ? ''
21 From the walls came a moan like the wind in the tree-tops -- `` We see , XXXXX Kaa . ''	O		O|debt|eyes|friends|head|hunter|hunting|nothing|thanks|tongue

1 she answered .
2 ` Why , you would be eaten up by wolves . '
3 But the foolish youth kept repeating , ' I will go , I will go , I will go ! '
4 Seeing that she could do nothing with him , the mother gave him a crust of bread and a bottle of water , and took no further heed of him .
5 So the Simpleton set off on his way .
6 When he had gone a short distance he met a little old manikin .
7 They greeted one another , and the manikin asked him where he was going . '
8 I am off to the King 's Court , ' he answered .
9 ` He has promised to give his daughter to whoever can make a flying ship . '
10 ` And can you make such a ship ? '
11 ` Not I. ' ` Then why in the world are you going ? '
12 ` Ca n't tell , ' replied the Simpleton .
13 ` Well , if that is the case , ' said the manikin , ` sit down beside me ; we can rest for a little and have something to eat .
14 Give me what you have got in your satchel . '
15 Now , the poor Simpleton was ashamed to show what was in it .
16 However , he thought it best not to make a fuss , so he opened the satchel , and could scarcely believe his own eyes , for , instead of the hard crust , he saw two beautiful fresh rolls and some cold meat .
17 He shared them with the manikin , who licked his lips and said : ` Now , go into that wood , and stop in front of the first tree , bow three times , and then strike the tree with your axe , fall on your knees on the ground , with your face on the earth , and remain there till you are raised up .
18 You will then find a ship at your side , step into it and fly to the King 's Palace .
19 If you meet anyone on the way , take him with you . '
20 The Simpleton thanked the manikin very kindly , bade him farewell , and went into the road .
21 When he got to the first tree he stopped in front of it , did everything just as he had been told , and , kneeling on the ground with his XXXXX to the earth , fell asleep .	face		axe|eyes|face|fall|lips|manikin|road|tree|way|youth

1 So she was taken on as a kitchen-maid for very small wages .
2 Now the Prince was about to marry another princess , for he thought she was dead long ago .
3 In the evening , when she had washed up and was ready , she felt in her pocket and found the three nuts which the old toad had given her .
4 She cracked one and was going to eat the kernel , when behold !
5 there was a beautiful royal dress inside it !
6 When the bride heard of this , she came and begged for the dress , and wanted to buy it , saying that it was not a dress for a serving-maid .
7 Then she said she would not sell it unless she was granted one favour -- namely , to sleep by the Prince 's door .
8 The bride granted her this , because the dress was so beautiful and she had so few like it .
9 When it was evening she said to her bridegroom , ` That stupid maid wants to sleep by your door . '
10 ` If you are contented , I am , ' he said .
11 But she gave him a glass of wine in which she had poured a sleeping-draught .
12 Then they both went to his room , but he slept so soundly that she could not wake him .
13 The maid wept all night long , and said , ' I freed you in the wild wood out of the iron stove ; I have sought you , and have crossed a glassy mountain , three sharp swords , and a great lake before I found you , and will you not hear me now ? '
14 The servants outside heard how she cried the whole night , and they told their master in the morning .
15 When she had washed up the next evening she bit the second nut , and there was a still more beautiful dress inside .
16 When the bride saw it she wanted to buy it also .
17 But the maid did not want money , and asked that she should sleep again by the Prince 's door .
18 The bride , however , gave him a sleeping-draught , and he slept so soundly that he heard nothing .
19 But the kitchen-maid wept the whole night long , and said , ' I have freed you in a wood and from an iron stove ; I sought you and have crossed a glassy mountain , three sharp swords , and a great lake to find you , and now you will not hear me ! '
20 The servants outside heard how she cried the whole night , and in the morning they told their master .
21 And when she had washed up on the third night she bit the third XXXXX , and there was a still more beautiful dress inside that was made of pure gold .	nut		bridegroom|maid|master|nothing|nut|nuts|room|servants|toad|wood

1 ` That depends a good deal on where you want to get to , ' said the Cat . '
2 I do n't much care where -- ' said Alice .
3 ` Then it does n't matter which way you go , ' said the Cat . '
4 -- so long as I get SOMEWHERE , ' Alice added as an explanation .
5 ` Oh , you 're sure to do that , ' said the Cat , ` if you only walk long enough . '
6 Alice felt that this could not be denied , so she tried another question .
7 ` What sort of people live about here ? '
8 ` In THAT direction , ' the Cat said , waving its right paw round , ` lives a Hatter : and in THAT direction , ' waving the other paw , ` lives a March Hare .
9 Visit either you like : they 're both mad . '
10 ` But I do n't want to go among mad people , ' Alice remarked .
11 ` Oh , you ca n't help that , ' said the Cat : ` we 're all mad here .
12 I 'm mad .
13 You 're mad . '
14 ` How do you know I 'm mad ? '
15 said Alice .
16 ` You must be , ' said the Cat , ` or you would n't have come here . '
17 Alice did n't think that proved it at all ; however , she went on ` And how do you know that you 're mad ? '
18 ` To begin with , ' said the Cat , ' a dog 's not mad .
19 You grant that ? ' '
20 I suppose so , ' said Alice .
21 ` Well , then , ' the Cat went on , ` you see , a XXXXX growls when it 's angry , and wags its tail when it 's pleased .	dog		Cat|Visit|care|deal|direction|dog|explanation|people|question|way

1 She answered that fortune had contrived this wonderfully , for pirates had plundered Hetland and killed the King , and she had fled from the land in terror , and had come hither after great trouble , and she was the very person he was looking for , and the others were her daughter and maid .
2 The King immediately asked her hand ; she gladly received his proposal and accepted him at once .
3 Thereafter they all set out , and made their way to the ship ; and after that nothing is told of their voyage until the King reached his own country .
4 There he made a great feast , and celebrated his marriage with this woman ; and after that things are quiet for a time .
5 Hermod and Hadvor took but little notice of the Queen and her daughter , but , on the other hand , Hadvor and the Queen 's maid , whose name was Olof , were very friendly , and Olof came often to visit Hadvor in her castle .
6 Before long the King went out to war , and no sooner was he away than the Queen came to talk with Hermod , and said that she wanted him to marry her daughter .
7 Hermod told her straight and plain that he would not do so , at which the Queen grew terribly angry , and said that in that case neither should he have Hadvor , for she would now lay this spell on him , that he should go to a desert island and there be a lion by day and a man by night .
8 He should also think always of Hadvor , which would cause him all the more sorrow , and from this spell he should never be freed until Hadvor burned the lion 's skin , and that would not happen very soon .
9 As soon as the Queen had finished her speech Hermod replied that he also laid a spell on her , and that was , that as soon as he was freed from her enchantments she should become a rat and her daughter a mouse , and fight with each other in the hall until he killed them with his sword .
10 After this Hermod disappeared , and no one knew what had become of him ; the Queen caused search to be made for him , but he could nowhere be found .
11 One time , when Olof was in the castle beside Hadvor , she asked the Princess if she knew where Hermod had gone to .
12 At this Hadvor became very sad , and said that she did not . '
13 I shall tell you then , ' said Olof , ` for I know all about it .
14 Hermod has disappeared through the wicked devices of the Queen , for she is a witch , and so is her daughter , though they have put on these beautiful forms .
15 Because Hermod would not fall in with the Queen 's plans , and marry her daughter , she has laid a spell on him , to go on an island and be a lion by day and a man by night , and never be freed from this until you burn the lion 's skin .
16 Besides , ' said Olof , ` she has looked out a match for you ; she has a brother in the Underworld , a three-headed Giant , whom she means to turn into a beautiful prince and get him married to you .
17 This is no new thing for the Queen ; she took me away from my parents ' house and compelled me to serve her ; but she has never done me any harm , for the green cloak I wear protects me against all mischief .
18 Hadvor now became still sadder than before at the thought of the marriage destined for her , and entreated Olof to think of some plan to save her . '
19 I think , ' said Olof , ` that your wooer will come up through the floor of the castle to you , and so you must be prepared when you hear the noise of his coming and the floor begins to open , and have at hand blazing pitch , and pour plenty of it into the opening .
20 That will prove too much for him . '
21 About this time the King came home from his expedition , and thought it a great blow that no XXXXX knew what had become of Hermod ; but the Queen consoled him as best she could , and after a time the King thought less about his disappearance .	one		Underworld|brother|castle|cloak|country|one|plan|rat|speech|woman

1 `` Happen !
2 The worst that can happen .
3 Petersen Sahib is a madman .
4 Else why should he go hunting these wild devils ?
5 He may even require thee to be an elephant catcher , to sleep anywhere in these fever-filled jungles , and at last to be trampled to death in the Keddah .
6 It is well that this nonsense ends safely .
7 Next week the catching is over , and we of the plains are sent back to our stations .
8 Then we will march on smooth roads , and forget all this hunting .
9 But , son , I am angry that thou shouldst meddle in the business that belongs to these dirty Assamese jungle folk .
10 Kala Nag will obey none but me , so I must go with him into the Keddah , but he is only a fighting elephant , and he does not help to rope them .
11 So I sit at my ease , as befits a mahout , -- not a mere hunter , -- a mahout , I say , and a man who gets a pension at the end of his service .
12 Is the family of Toomai of the Elephants to be trodden underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah ?
13 Bad one !
14 Wicked one !
15 Worthless son !
16 Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ears , and see that there are no thorns in his feet .
17 Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild hunter -- a follower of elephant 's foot tracks , a jungle bear .
18 Bah !
19 Shame !
20 Go ! ''
21 Little Toomai went off without saying a word , but he told Kala Nag all his grievances while he was examining his XXXXX .	feet		Keddah|business|ears|ease|feet|man|pension|plains|roads|week

1 In short , the Nightingale was a real success .
2 She had to stay at Court now ; she had her own cage , and permission to walk out twice in the day and once at night .
3 She was given twelve servants , who each held a silken string which was fastened round her leg .
4 There was little pleasure in flying about like this .
5 The whole town was talking about the wonderful bird , and when two people met each other one would say ` Nightin , ' and the other ` Gale , ' and then they would both sigh and understand one another .
6 Yes , and eleven grocer 's children were called after her , but not one of them could sing a note .
7 One day the Emperor received a large parcel on which was written ` The Nightingale . '
8 ` Here is another new book about our famous bird ! '
9 said the Emperor .
10 But it was not a book , but a little mechanical toy , which lay in a box -- an artificial nightingale which was like the real one , only that it was set all over with diamonds , rubies , and sapphires .
11 When it was wound up , it could sing the piece the real bird sang , and moved its tail up and down , and glittered with silver and gold .
12 Round its neck was a little collar on which was written , ` The Nightingale of the Emperor of Japan is nothing compared to that of the Emperor of China . '
13 ` This is magnificent ! '
14 they all said , and the man who had brought the clockwork bird received on the spot the title of ` Bringer of the Imperial First Nightingale . '
15 ` Now they must sing together ; what a duet we shall have ! '
16 And so they sang together , but their voices did not blend , for the real Nightingale sang in her way and the clockwork bird sang waltzes .
17 ` It is not its fault ! '
18 said the bandmaster ; ` it keeps very good time and is quite after my style ! '
19 Then the artificial bird had to sing alone .
20 It gave just as much pleasure as the real one , and then it was so much prettier to look at ; it sparkled like bracelets and necklaces .
21 Three-and-thirty times it sang the same XXXXX without being tired .	piece		bird|box|duet|gold|leg|piece|string|success|title|voices

1 The second girl handed him the sword , but though he tried with all his strength he could not lift it .
2 At last a third sister came to him and gave him a drop of something to drink , which she said would give him the needful strength .
3 He drank one drop , but still he could not lift the sword ; then he drank a second , and the sword began to move ; but only after he had drunk a third drop was he able to swing the sword over his head .
4 Then he hid himself in the castle and awaited the old witch 's arrival .
5 At last as it was beginning to grow dark she appeared .
6 She swooped down upon a big apple-tree , and after shaking some golden apples from it , she pounced down upon the earth .
7 As soon as her feet touched the ground she became transformed from a hawk into a woman .
8 This was the moment the youth was waiting for , and he swung his mighty sword in the air with all his strength and the witch 's head fell off , and her blood spurted up on the walls .
9 Without fear of any further danger , he packed up all the treasures of the castle into great chests , and gave his brothers a signal to pull them up out of the abyss .
10 First the treasures were attached to the rope and then the three lovely girls .
11 And now everything was up above and only he himself remained below .
12 But as he was a little suspicious of his brothers , he fastened a heavy stone on to the rope and let them pull it up .
13 At first they heaved with a will , but when the stone was half way up they let it drop suddenly , and it fell to the bottom broken into a hundred pieces .
14 ` So that 's what would have happened to my bones had I trusted myself to them , ' said the youth sadly ; and he began to cry bitterly , not because of the treasures , but because of the lovely girl with her swanlike neck and golden hair .
15 For a long time he wandered sadly all through the beautiful underworld , and one day he met a magician who asked him the cause of his tears .
16 The youth told him all that had befallen him , and the magician said : ` Do not grieve , young man !
17 If you will guard the children who are hidden in the golden apple-tree , I will bring you at once up to the earth .
18 Another magician who lives in this land always eats my children up .
19 It is in vain that I have hidden them under the earth and locked them into the castle .
20 Now I have hidden them in the apple-tree ; hide yourself there too , and at midnight you will see my enemy . '
21 The XXXXX climbed up the tree , and picked some of the beautiful golden apples , which he ate for his supper .	youth		chests|children|fear|girl|man|moment|sister|time|witch|youth

1 ` Yes , it IS his business ! '
2 said Five , ` and I 'll tell him -- it was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions . '
3 Seven flung down his brush , and had just begun ` Well , of all the unjust things -- ' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice , as she stood watching them , and he checked himself suddenly : the others looked round also , and all of them bowed low .
4 ` Would you tell me , ' said Alice , a little timidly , ` why you are painting those roses ? '
5 Five and Seven said nothing , but looked at Two .
6 Two began in a low voice , ` Why the fact is , you see , Miss , this here ought to have been a RED rose-tree , and we put a white one in by mistake ; and if the Queen was to find it out , we should all have our heads cut off , you know .
7 So you see , Miss , we 're doing our best , afore she comes , to -- ' At this moment Five , who had been anxiously looking across the garden , called out ` The Queen !
8 The Queen ! '
9 and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces .
10 There was a sound of many footsteps , and Alice looked round , eager to see the Queen .
11 First came ten soldiers carrying clubs ; these were all shaped like the three gardeners , oblong and flat , with their hands and feet at the corners : next the ten courtiers ; these were ornamented all over with diamonds , and walked two and two , as the soldiers did .
12 After these came the royal children ; there were ten of them , and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand , in couples : they were all ornamented with hearts .
13 Next came the guests , mostly Kings and Queens , and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit : it was talking in a hurried nervous manner , smiling at everything that was said , and went by without noticing her .
14 Then followed the Knave of Hearts , carrying the King 's crown on a crimson velvet cushion ; and , last of all this grand procession , came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS .
15 Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face like the three gardeners , but she could not remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions ; ` and besides , what would be the use of a procession , ' thought she , ` if people had all to lie down upon their faces , so that they could n't see it ? '
16 So she stood still where she was , and waited .
17 When the procession came opposite to Alice , they all stopped and looked at her , and the Queen said severely ` Who is this ? '
18 She said it to the Knave of Hearts , who only bowed and smiled in reply .
19 ` Idiot ! '
20 said the Queen , tossing her head impatiently ; and , turning to Alice , she went on , ` What 's your name , child ? '
21 ` My XXXXX is Alice , so please your Majesty , ' said Alice very politely ; but she added , to herself , ` Why , they 're only a pack of cards , after all .	name		Miss|brush|gardeners|guests|moment|name|onions|procession|round|rule

1 Above the noise of the water , as it swirled round the elephant 's legs , Little Toomai could hear more splashing and some trumpeting both upstream and down -- great grunts and angry snortings , and all the mist about him seemed to be full of rolling , wavy shadows .
2 `` Ai ! ''
3 he said , half aloud , his teeth chattering .
4 `` The elephant-folk are out tonight .
5 It is the dance , then ! ''
6 Kala Nag swashed out of the water , blew his trunk clear , and began another climb .
7 But this time he was not alone , and he had not to make his path .
8 That was made already , six feet wide , in front of him , where the bent jungle-grass was trying to recover itself and stand up .
9 Many elephants must have gone that way only a few minutes before .
10 Little Toomai looked back , and behind him a great wild tusker with his little pig 's eyes glowing like hot coals was just lifting himself out of the misty river .
11 Then the trees closed up again , and they went on and up , with trumpetings and crashings , and the sound of breaking branches on every side of them .
12 At last Kala Nag stood still between two tree-trunks at the very top of the hill .
13 They were part of a circle of trees that grew round an irregular space of some three or four acres , and in all that space , as Little Toomai could see , the ground had been trampled down as hard as a brick floor .
14 Some trees grew in the center of the clearing , but their bark was rubbed away , and the white wood beneath showed all shiny and polished in the patches of moonlight .
15 There were creepers hanging from the upper branches , and the bells of the flowers of the creepers , great waxy white things like convolvuluses , hung down fast asleep .
16 But within the limits of the clearing there was not a single blade of green -- nothing but the trampled earth .
17 The moonlight showed it all iron gray , except where some elephants stood upon it , and their shadows were inky black .
18 Little Toomai looked , holding his breath , with his eyes starting out of his head , and as he looked , more and more and more elephants swung out into the open from between the tree trunks .
19 Little Toomai could only count up to ten , and he counted again and again on his fingers till he lost count of the tens , and his head began to swim .
20 Outside the clearing he could hear them crashing in the undergrowth as they worked their way up the hillside , but as soon as they were within the circle of the tree trunks they moved like ghosts .
21 There were white-tusked wild males , with fallen leaves and nuts and twigs lying in the wrinkles of their necks and the folds of their ears ; fat , slow-footed she-elephants , with restless , little pinky black calves only three or four feet high running under their stomachs ; young XXXXX with their tusks just beginning to show , and very proud of them ; lanky , scraggy old-maid elephants , with their hollow anxious faces , and trunks like rough bark ; savage old bull elephants , scarred from shoulder to flank with great weals and cuts of bygone fights , and the caked dirt of their solitary mud baths dropping from their shoulders ; and there was one with a broken tusk and the marks of the full-stroke , the terrible drawing scrape , of a tiger 's claws on his side .	elephants		clearing|climb|count|dance|elephants|head|moonlight|nothing|trees|way

1 Find a home for yourself in one of the lovely flowers that grow down there ; now I will set you down , and you can do whatever you like . '
2 ` That will be splendid ! '
3 said she , clapping her little hands .
4 There lay a great white marble column which had fallen to the ground and broken into three pieces , but between these grew the most beautiful white flowers .
5 The swallow flew down with Thumbelina , and set her upon one of the broad leaves .
6 But there , to her astonishment , she found a tiny little man sitting in the middle of the flower , as white and transparent as if he were made of glass ; he had the prettiest golden crown on his head , and the most beautiful wings on his shoulders ; he himself was no bigger than Thumbelina .
7 He was the spirit of the flower .
8 In each blossom there dwelt a tiny man or woman ; but this one was the King over the others .
9 ` How handsome he is ! '
10 whispered Thumbelina to the swallow .
11 The little Prince was very much frightened at the swallow , for in comparison with one so tiny as himself he seemed a giant .
12 But when he saw Thumbelina , he was delighted , for she was the most beautiful girl he had ever seen .
13 So he took his golden crown from off his head and put it on hers , asking her her name , and if she would be his wife , and then she would be Queen of all the flowers .
14 Yes !
15 he was a different kind of husband to the son of the toad and the mole with the black-velvet coat .
16 So she said ` Yes ' to the noble Prince .
17 And out of each flower came a lady and gentleman , each so tiny and pretty that it was a pleasure to see them .
18 Each brought Thumbelina a present , but the best of all was a beautiful pair of wings which were fastened on to her back , and now she too could fly from flower to flower .
19 They all wished her joy , and the swallow sat above in his nest and sang the wedding march , and that he did as well as he could ; but he was sad , because he was very fond of Thumbelina and did not want to be separated from her .
20 ` You shall not be called Thumbelina ! '
21 said the spirit of the XXXXX to her ; ` that is an ugly name , and you are much too pretty for that .	flower		blossom|flower|gentleman|girl|joy|middle|nest|shoulders|wife|woman

1 ` Well , I sha n't go , at any rate , ' said Alice : ` besides , that 's not a regular rule : you invented it just now . '
2 ` It 's the oldest rule in the book , ' said the King .
3 ` Then it ought to be Number One , ' said Alice .
4 The King turned pale , and shut his note-book hastily .
5 ` Consider your verdict , ' he said to the jury , in a low , trembling voice .
6 ` There 's more evidence to come yet , please your Majesty , ' said the White Rabbit , jumping up in a great hurry ; ` this paper has just been picked up . '
7 ` What 's in it ? '
8 said the Queen . '
9 I have n't opened it yet , ' said the White Rabbit , ` but it seems to be a letter , written by the prisoner to -- to somebody . '
10 ` It must have been that , ' said the King , ` unless it was written to nobody , which is n't usual , you know . '
11 ` Who is it directed to ? '
12 said one of the jurymen .
13 ` It is n't directed at all , ' said the White Rabbit ; ` in fact , there 's nothing written on the OUTSIDE . '
14 He unfolded the paper as he spoke , and added ` It is n't a letter , after all : it 's a set of verses . '
15 ` Are they in the prisoner 's handwriting ? '
16 asked another of the jurymen .
17 ` No , they 're not , ' said the White Rabbit , ` and that 's the queerest thing about it . '
18 -LRB- The jury all looked puzzled . -RRB-
19 ` He must have imitated somebody else 's hand , ' said the King .
20 -LRB- The jury all brightened up again . -RRB-
21 ` Please your XXXXX , ' said the Knave , ' I did n't write it , and they ca n't prove I did : there 's no name signed at the end . '	Majesty		Majesty|Number|OUTSIDE|book|hurry|letter|paper|prisoner|rate|rule

1 `` Why , I could n't do that ! ''
2 he exclaimed right out loud .
3 `` Do what ? ''
4 demanded Jerry Muskrat , who happened along just then .
5 `` Why , grow a new tail like that pollywog , '' replied Peter , and told Jerry all that he had seen .
6 Jerry laughed .
7 `` You 'll see queerer things than that if you watch those pollywogs long enough , '' said he .
8 `` They are a queer lot of babies , and very interesting to watch if you 've got the time for it .
9 I have n't .
10 This Smiling Pool is a great kindergarten , and there 's something happening here every minute .
11 There 's no place like it . ''
12 `` Are those great big fat pollywogs Grandfather Frog 's children , or Old Mr. Toad 's ? ''
13 asked Peter .
14 `` Grandfather Frog 's last year 's children , '' replied Jerry .
15 `` They 'll grow into real Frogs this summer , if nothing happens to them . ''
16 `` Where are Old Mr. Toad 's last year 's children ? ''
17 asked Peter .
18 `` Do n't ask me , '' replied Jerry .
19 `` They hopped away last summer .
20 Never saw anything like the way those Toad youngsters grow .
21 Those Toad pollywogs you see now will turn into real Toads , and be leaving the Smiling XXXXX in a few weeks .	Pool		Pool|anything|children|nothing|place|something|summer|tail|things|way

1 When he came home he put all the fishes together into a great dish , but he kept the Crab separate because it shone so beautifully , and placed it upon a high shelf in the cupboard .
2 Now while the old woman , his wife , was cleaning the fish , and had tucked up her gown so that her feet were visible , she suddenly heard a voice , which said : ` Let down , let down thy petticoat That lets thy feet be seen . '
3 She turned round in surprise , and then she saw the little creature , the Golden Crab .
4 ` What !
5 You can speak , can you , you ridiculous crab ? '
6 she said , for she was not quite pleased at the Crab 's remarks .
7 Then she took him up and placed him on a dish .
8 When her husband came home and they sat down to dinner , they presently heard the Crab 's little voice saying , ` Give me some too . '
9 They were all very much surprised , but they gave him something to eat .
10 When the old man came to take away the plate which had contained the Crab 's dinner , he found it full of gold , and as the same thing happened every day he soon became very fond of the Crab .
11 One day the Crab said to the fisherman 's wife , ` Go to the King and tell him I wish to marry his younger daughter . '
12 The old woman went accordingly , and laid the matter before the King , who laughed a little at the notion of his daughter marrying a crab , but did not decline the proposal altogether , because he was a prudent monarch , and knew that the Crab was likely to be a prince in disguise .
13 He said , therefore , to the fisherman 's wife , ` Go , old woman , and tell the Crab I will give him my daughter if by to-morrow morning he can build a wall in front of my castle much higher than my tower , upon which all the flowers of the world must grow and bloom . '
14 The fisherman 's wife went home and gave this message .
15 Then the Crab gave her a golden rod , and said , ` Go and strike with this rod three times upon the ground on the place which the King showed you , and to-morrow morning the wall will be there . '
16 The old woman did so and went away again .
17 The next morning , when the King awoke , what do you think he saw ?
18 The wall stood there before his eyes , exactly as he had bespoken it !
19 Then the old woman went back to the King and said to him , ` Your Majesty 's orders have been fulfilled . '
20 ` That is all very well , ' said the King , ` but I can not give away my daughter until there stands in front of my palace a garden in which there are three fountains , of which the first must play gold , the second diamonds , and the third brilliants . '
21 So the old woman had to strike again three times upon the ground with the rod , and the next XXXXX the garden was there .	morning		dinner|fountains|front|garden|home|man|morning|shelf|to-morrow|woman

1 Here she was received by a beautiful lady dressed in green and white to match the house , which apparently belonged to her , and of which she seemed the only inhabitant .
2 She greeted the fainting Princess most kindly , gave her an excellent supper , and after a long night 's rest in a delightful bed told her that after many troubles she should finally attain her desire .
3 As the green and white lady took leave of the Princess she gave her a nut , desiring her only to open it in the most urgent need .
4 After a long and tiring journey Fairer-than-a-Fairy was once more received in a house , and by a lady exactly like the one she had quitted .
5 Here again she received a present with the same injunctions , but instead of a nut this lady gave her a golden pomegranate .
6 The mournful Princess had to continue her weary way , and after many troubles and hardships she again found rest and shelter in a third house exactly similar to the two others .
7 These houses belonged to three sisters , all endowed with fairy gifts , and all so alike in mind and person that they wished their houses and garments to be equally alike .
8 Their occupation consisted in helping those in misfortune , and they were as gentle and benevolent as Lagree had been cruel and spiteful .
9 The third Fairy comforted the poor traveller , begged her not to lose heart , and assured her that her troubles should be rewarded .
10 She accompanied her advice by the gift of a crystal smelling-bottle , with strict orders only to open it in case of urgent need .
11 Fairer-than-a-Fairy thanked her warmly , and resumed her way cheered by pleasant thoughts .
12 After a time her road led through a wood , full of soft airs and sweet odours , and before she had gone a hundred yards she saw a wonderful silver Castle suspended by strong silver chains to four of the largest trees .
13 It was so perfectly hung that a gentle breeze rocked it sufficiently to send you pleasantly to sleep .
14 Fairer-than-a-Fairy felt a strong desire to enter this Castle , but besides being hung a little above the ground there seemed to be neither doors nor windows .
15 She had no doubt -LRB- though really I can not think why -RRB- that the moment had come in which to use the nut which had been given her .
16 She opened it , and out came a diminutive hall porter at whose belt hung a tiny chain , at the end of which was a golden key half as long as the smallest pin you ever saw .
17 The Princess climbed up one of the silver chains , holding in her hand the little porter who , in spite of his minute size , opened a secret door with his golden key and let her in .
18 She entered a magnificent room which appeared to occupy the entire Castle , and which was lighted by gold and jewelled stars in the ceiling .
19 In the midst of this room stood a couch , draped with curtains of all the colours of the rainbow , and suspended by golden cords so that it swayed with the Castle in a manner which rocked its occupant delightfully to sleep .
20 On this elegant couch lay Prince Rainbow , looking more beautiful than ever , and sunk in profound slumber , in which he had been held ever since his disappearance .
21 Fairy-than-a-Fairy , who now saw him for the first XXXXX in his real shape , hardly dared to gaze at him , fearing lest his appearance might not be in keeping with the voice and language which had won her heart .	time		advice|doubt|ground|hardships|need|rainbow|room|supper|time|traveller

1 Accordingly she poured what was in the bottle on him , and before long he rose up on his feet , and was as well as ever he was .
2 So that business was finished , and the Princess was freed from the spell .
3 The Princess then told the Irishman that she must go away for the present , but would return for him in a few days in a carriage drawn by four grey horses .
4 He told her to ` be aisy , ' and not speak like that to him . '
5 I have paid dear for you for the last three nights , ' he said , ` if I have to part with you now ; ' but in the twinkling of an eye she had disappeared .
6 He did not know what to do with himself when he saw that she was gone , but before she went she had given him a little rod , with which he could , when he pleased , waken the men who had been sleeping there , some of them for sixteen years .
7 After being thus left alone , he went in and stretched himself on three chairs that were in the room , when what does he see coming in at the door but a little fair-haired lad .
8 ` Where did you come from , my lad ? '
9 said the Irishman . '
10 I came to make ready your food for you , ' said he .
11 ` Who told you to do that ? '
12 said the Irishman .
13 ` My mistress , ' answered the lad -- ` the Princess that was under the spell and is now free . '
14 By this the Irishman knew that she had sent the lad to wait on him .
15 The lad also told him that his mistress wished him to be ready next morning at nine o'clock , when she would come for him with the carriage , as she had promised .
16 He was greatly pleased at this , and next morning , when the time was drawing near , went out into the garden ; but the little fair-haired lad took a big pin out of his pocket , and stuck it into the back of the Irishman 's coat without his noticing it , whereupon he fell sound asleep .
17 Before long the Princess came with the carriage and four horses , and asked the lad whether his master was awake .
18 He said that he was n't .
19 ` It is bad for him , ' said she , ` when the night is not long enough for him to sleep .
20 Tell him that if he does n't meet me at this time to-morrow it is not likely that he will ever see me again all his life . '
21 As soon as she was gone the lad took the pin out of his master 's XXXXX , who instantly awoke .	coat		back|bottle|business|chairs|coat|eye|garden|lad|part|rod

1 They assembled in the water round the green stalk which supported the leaf on which she was sitting , and nibbled the stem in two .
2 Away floated the leaf down the stream , bearing Thumbelina far beyond the reach of the toad .
3 On she sailed past several towns , and the little birds sitting in the bushes saw her , and sang , ` What a pretty little girl ! '
4 The leaf floated farther and farther away ; thus Thumbelina left her native land .
5 A beautiful little white butterfly fluttered above her , and at last settled on the leaf .
6 Thumbelina pleased him , and she , too , was delighted , for now the toads could not reach her , and it was so beautiful where she was travelling ; the sun shone on the water and made it sparkle like the brightest silver .
7 She took off her sash , and tied one end round the butterfly ; the other end she fastened to the leaf , so that now it glided along with her faster than ever .
8 A great cockchafer came flying past ; he caught sight of Thumbelina , and in a moment had put his arms round her slender waist , and had flown off with her to a tree .
9 The green leaf floated away down the stream , and the butterfly with it , for he was fastened to the leaf and could not get loose from it .
10 Oh , dear !
11 how terrified poor little Thumbelina was when the cockchafer flew off with her to the tree !
12 But she was especially distressed on the beautiful white butterfly 's account , as she had tied him fast , so that if he could not get away he must starve to death .
13 But the cockchafer did not trouble himself about that ; he sat down with her on a large green leaf , gave her the honey out of the flowers to eat , and told her that she was very pretty , although she was n't in the least like a cockchafer .
14 Later on , all the other cockchafers who lived in the same tree came to pay calls ; they examined Thumbelina closely , and remarked , ` Why , she has only two legs !
15 How very miserable ! '
16 ` She has no feelers ! '
17 cried another .
18 ` How ugly she is ! '
19 said all the lady chafers -- and yet Thumbelina was really very pretty .
20 The cockchafer who had stolen her knew this very well ; but when he heard all the ladies saying she was ugly , he began to think so too , and would not keep her ; she might go wherever she liked .
21 So he flew down from the XXXXX with her and put her on a daisy .	tree		account|death|land|past|stem|stream|toad|tree|trouble|waist

1 The Young Man shook his head , but did not look at her .
2 `` It 's pretty bad , '' he admitted .
3 `` You see , '' said the Girl pathetically , `` the shadow of it has been over my whole life .
4 Of course , when I was a very little girl I did n't mind it so much .
5 It was such a long way off and lots of things might happen .
6 The Creature might run away with some other girl -- or I might have the smallpox -- or Beatrix 's nose might be straight when she grew up .
7 And if Beatrix 's nose were straight she 'd be a great deal prettier than I am .
8 But nothing did happen -- and her nose is puggier than ever .
9 Then when I grew up things were horrid .
10 I never could have a single little bit of fun .
11 And Beatrix had such a good time !
12 She had scores of lovers in spite of her nose .
13 To be sure , she 's engaged now -- and he 's a horrid , faddy little creature .
14 But he is her own choice .
15 She was n't told that there was a man in England whom she must marry by and by , when he got sufficiently reconciled to the idea to come and ask her .
16 Oh , it makes me furious ! ''
17 `` Is -- is there -- anyone else ? ''
18 asked the Young Man hesitatingly .
19 `` Oh , dear , no .
20 How could there be ?
21 Why , you know , I could n't have the tiniest flirtation with another man when I was as good as engaged to the XXXXX .	Creature		Creature|anyone|choice|girl|head|man|shadow|smallpox|time|way

1 And the Princess and the Swineherd were driven out of the empire .
2 Then she stood still and wept ; the Swineherd was scolding , and the rain was streaming down .
3 ` Alas , what an unhappy creature I am ! '
4 sobbed the Princess .
5 ` If only I had taken the beautiful Prince !
6 Alas , how unfortunate I am ! '
7 And the Swineherd went behind a tree , washed the black and brown off his face , threw away his old clothes , and then stepped forward in his splendid dress , looking so beautiful that the Princess was obliged to courtesy . '
8 I now come to this .
9 I despise you ! '
10 he said .
11 ` You would have nothing to do with a noble Prince ; you did not understand the rose or the nightingale , but you could kiss the Swineherd for the sake of a toy .
12 This is what you get for it ! '
13 And he went into his kingdom and shut the door in her face , and she had to stay outside singing -- ` Where 's my Augustus dear ?
14 Alas !
15 he 's not here , here , here !
16 HOW TO TELL A TRUE PRINCESS There was once upon a time a Prince who wanted to marry a Princess , but she must be a true Princess .
17 So he travelled through the whole world to find one , but there was always something against each .
18 There were plenty of Princesses , but he could not find out if they were true Princesses .
19 In every case there was some little defect , which showed the genuine article was not yet found .
20 So he came home again in very low spirits , for he had wanted very much to have a true Princess .
21 One night there was a dreadful storm ; it thundered and lightened and the XXXXX streamed down in torrents .	rain		article|courtesy|creature|kiss|nightingale|plenty|rain|sake|singing|spirits

1 But after a few hours , by the magic arts of the old witch , he was overpowered by sleep , and the mare and foal escaped and did as they had been told to do .
2 The Prince did not awake till late in the evening ; and when he did , he found , to his horror , that the horses had disappeared .
3 Filled with despair , he cursed the moment when he had entered the service of the cruel witch , and already he saw his head sticking up on the sharp spike beside the others .
4 Then he suddenly remembered the fish 's scale , which , with the eagle 's feather and the fox 's hairs , he always carried about with him .
5 He drew the scale from his pocket , and hurrying to the river he threw it in .
6 In a minute the grateful fish swam towards the bank on which Iwanich was standing , and said : ` What do you command , my friend and benefactor ? '
7 The Prince replied : ' I had to look after a mare and foal , and they have run away from me and have hidden themselves in the river ; if you wish to save my life drive them back to the land . '
8 ` Wait a moment , ' answered the fish , ` and I and my friends will soon drive them out of the water . '
9 With these words the creature disappeared into the depths of the stream .
10 Almost immediately a rushing hissing sound was heard in the waters , the waves dashed against the banks , the foam was tossed into the air , and the two horses leapt suddenly on to the dry land , trembling and shaking with fear .
11 Iwanich sprang at once on to the mare 's back , seized the foal by its bridle , and hastened home in the highest spirits .
12 When the witch saw the Prince bringing the horses home she could hardly conceal her wrath , and as soon as she had placed Iwanich 's supper before him she stole away again to the stables .
13 The Prince followed her , and heard her scolding the beasts harshly for not having hidden themselves better .
14 She bade them wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep and then to hide themselves in the clouds , and to remain there till she called .
15 If they did not do as she told them she would beat them till they bled .
16 The next morning , after Iwanich had led his horses to the fields , he fell once more into a magic sleep .
17 The horses at once ran away and hid themselves in the clouds , which hung down from the mountains in soft billowy masses .
18 When the Prince awoke and found that both the mare and the foal had disappeared , he bethought him at once of the eagle , and taking the feather out of his pocket he blew it into the air .
19 In a moment the bird swooped down beside him and asked : ` What do you wish me to do ? '
20 ` My mare and foal , ' replied the Prince , ` have run away from me , and have hidden themselves in the clouds ; if you wish to save my life , restore both animals to me . '
21 ` Wait a minute , ' answered the XXXXX ; ` with the help of my friends I will soon drive them back to you . '	eagle		eagle|fear|fields|hairs|masses|others|scale|spirits|water|waves

1 They were astonished though at how greedily the Queen devoured the meat , and how much she ate of it , and were no longer surprised that she took so little when she sat at table with the King .
2 As soon as she had finished it the Giant disappeared with the trough by the same way as he had come , and the Queen returned to her human shape .
3 Now we must go back to the King 's son after he had been put in charge of the nurse .
4 One evening , after she had lit a candle and was holding the child , several planks sprang up in the floor of the room , and out at the opening came a beautiful woman dressed in white , with an iron belt round her waist , to which was fastened an iron chain that went down into the ground .
5 The woman came up to the nurse , took the child from her , and pressed it to her breast ; then she gave it back to the nurse and returned by the same way as she had come , and the floor closed over her again .
6 Although the woman had not spoken a single word to her , the nurse was very much frightened , but told no one about it .
7 Next evening the same thing happened again , just as before , but as the woman was going away she said in a sad tone , ` Two are gone , and one only is left , ' and then disappeared as before .
8 The nurse was still more frightened when she heard the woman say this , and thought that perhaps some danger was hanging over the child , though she had no ill-opinion of the unknown woman , who , indeed , had behaved towards the child as if it were her own .
9 The most mysterious thing was the woman saying ` and only one is left ; ' but the nurse guessed that this must mean that only one day was left , since she had come for two days already .
10 At last the nurse made up her mind to go to the King , and told him the whole story , and asked him to be present in person next day about the time when the woman usually came .
11 The King promised to do so , and came to the nurse 's room a little before the time , and sat down on a chair with his drawn sword in his hand .
12 Soon after the planks in the floor sprang up as before , and the woman came up , dressed in white , with the iron belt and chain .
13 The King saw at once that it was his own Queen , and immediately hewed asunder the iron chain that was fastened to the belt .
14 This was followed by such noises and crashings down in the earth that all the King 's Palace shook , so that no one expected anything else than to see every bit of it shaken to pieces .
15 At last , however , the noises and shaking stopped , and they began to come to themselves again .
16 The King and Queen embraced each other , and she told him the whole story -- how the Witch came to the ship when they were all asleep and sent her off in the boat .
17 After she had gone so far that she could not see the ship , she sailed on through darkness until she landed beside a three-headed Giant .
18 The Giant wished her to marry him , but she refused ; whereupon he shut her up by herself , and told her she would never get free until she consented .
19 After a time she began to plan how to get her freedom , and at last told him that she would consent if he would allow her to visit her son on earth three days on end .
20 This he agreed to , but put on her this iron belt and chain , the other end of which he fastened round his own waist , and the great noises that were heard when the King cut the chain must have been caused by the Giant 's falling down the underground passage when the chain gave way so suddenly .
21 The Giant 's dwelling , indeed , was right under the XXXXX , and the terrible shakings must have been caused by him in his death-throes .	Palace		Palace|anything|bit|candle|child|danger|freedom|person|sword|trough

1 I am dying for want of food and drink . '
2 ` Come inside , then , ' she said ; ` there is plenty of both here . '
3 Accordingly he went in to where she was , and she opened a large room for him , where he saw a number of men lying asleep .
4 She then set food before him , and after that showed him to the room where the others were .
5 He lay down on one of the beds and fell sound asleep .
6 And now we must go back to the two that he left behind him in the wood .
7 When nightfall and the time of the wild beasts came upon these , the Englishman happened to climb up into the very same tree on which the Scotsman was when he got a sight of the castle ; and as soon as the day began to dawn and the Englishman looked to the four quarters of heaven , what did he see but the castle too !
8 Off he went without saying a word to the Irishman , and everything happened to him just as it had done to the Scotsman .
9 The poor Irishman was now left all alone , and did not know where the others had gone to , so he just stayed where he was , very sad and miserable .
10 When night came he climbed up into the same tree as the Englishman had been on the night before .
11 As soon as day came he also saw the castle , and set out towards it ; but when he reached it he could see no signs of fire or living being about it .
12 Before long , however , he heard the window opened above his head , looked up , and beheld the most beautiful woman he had ever seen .
13 He asked if she would give him food and drink , and she answered kindly and heartily that she would , if he would only come inside .
14 This he did very willingly , and she set before him food and drink that he had never seen the like of before .
15 In the room there was a bed , with diamond rings hanging at every loop of the curtains , and everything that was in the room besides astonished him so much that he actually forgot that he was hungry .
16 When she saw that he was not eating at all , she asked him what he wanted yet , to which he replied that he would neither eat nor drink until he knew who she was , or where she came from , or who had put her there . '
17 I shall tell you that , ' said she . '
18 I am an enchanted Princess , and my father has promised that the man who releases me from the spell shall have the third of his kingdom while he is alive , and the whole of it after he is dead , and marry me as well .
19 If ever I saw a man who looked likely to do this , you are the one .
20 I have been here for sixteen years now , and no one who ever came to the castle has asked me who I was , except yourself .
21 Every other man that has come , so long as I have been here , lies asleep in the big XXXXX down there . '	room		beds|drink|everything|father|nightfall|others|room|spell|window|word

1 While he was riding over the heath in the highest of spirits the mare suddenly said to her rider : ` You are the first person who has ever succeeded in outwitting the old witch Corva , and now you may ask what reward you like for your service .
2 If you promise never to betray me I will give you a piece of advice which you will do well to follow . '
3 The Prince promised never to betray her confidence , and the mare continued : ` Ask nothing else as a reward than my foal , for it has not its like in the world , and is not to be bought for love or money ; for it can go from one end of the earth to another in a few minutes .
4 Of course the cunning Corva will do her best to dissuade you from taking the foal , and will tell you that it is both idle and sickly ; but do not believe her , and stick to your point . '
5 Iwanich longed to possess such an animal , and promised the mare to follow her advice .
6 This time Corva received him in the most friendly manner , and set a sumptuous repast before him .
7 As soon as he had finished she asked him what reward he demanded for his year 's service .
8 ` Nothing more nor less , ' replied the Prince , ` than the foal of your mare . '
9 The witch pretended to be much astonished at his request , and said that he deserved something much better than the foal , for the beast was lazy and nervous , blind in one eye , and , in short , was quite worthless .
10 But the Prince knew what he wanted , and when the old witch saw that he had made up his mind to have the foal , she said , ' I am obliged to keep my promise and to hand you over the foal ; and as I know who you are and what you want , I will tell you in what way the animal will be useful to you .
11 The man in the cauldron of boiling pitch , whom you set free , is a mighty magician ; through your curiosity and thoughtlessness Militza came into his power , and he has transported her and her castle and belongings into a distant country .
12 ` You are the only person who can kill him ; and in consequence he fears you to such an extent that he has set spies to watch you , and they report your movements to him daily .
13 ` When you have reached him , beware of speaking a single word to him , or you will fall into the power of his friends .
14 Seize him at once by the beard and dash him to the ground . '
15 Iwanich thanked the old witch , mounted his foal , put spurs to its sides , and they flew like lightning through the air .
16 Already it was growing dark , when Iwanich perceived some figures in the distance ; they soon came up to them , and then the Prince saw that it was the magician and his friends who were driving through the air in a carriage drawn by owls .
17 When the magician found himself face to face with Iwanich , without hope of escape , he turned to him with false friendliness and said : ` Thrice my kind benefactor ! '
18 But the Prince , without saying a word , seized him at once by his beard and dashed him to the ground .
19 At the same moment the foal sprang on the top of the magician and kicked and stamped on him with his hoofs till he died .
20 Then Iwanich found himself once more in the palace of his bride , and Militza herself flew into his arms .
21 From this time forward they lived in undisturbed peace and happiness till the XXXXX of their lives .	end		arms|castle|consequence|earth|end|ground|hoofs|man|time|way

1 said Old Mr. Toad with a very grand air , and pretending to be much surprised .
2 `` Sorry I ca n't stop , but I 've been dining with , my friend , Buster Bear , and now I must get home . ''
3 When he mentioned the name of Buster Bear , he puffed himself out a little more .
4 Danny grinned as he watched him hop on down the Lone Little Path .
5 `` Ca n't talk with common folks any more , '' he muttered .
6 `` I 've heard that pride is very apt to turn people 's heads , but I never expected to see Old Mr. Toad proud . ''
7 -LSB- Illustration : `` Ca n't talk with common folks any more , '' he muttered . -RSB-
8 Mr. Toad kept on his way , and presently he met Peter Rabbit .
9 Peter stopped to gossip , as is his way .
10 But Old Mr. Toad took no notice of him at all .
11 He kept right on with his head high , and all puffed out .
12 Peter might have been a stick or a stone for all the notice Old Mr. Toad took of him .
13 Peter looked puzzled .
14 Then he hurried down to tell Danny Meadow Mouse about it .
15 `` Oh , '' said Danny , `` he 's been to dine with Buster Bear , and now he has no use for his old friends . ''
16 Pretty soon along came Johnny Chuck , and he was very much put out because he had been treated by Old Mr. Toad just as Peter Rabbit had .
17 Striped Chipmunk told the same story .
18 So did Unc ' Billy Possum .
19 It was the same with all of Old Mr. Toad 's old friends and neighbors , excepting Bobby Coon , who , you know , is Buster Bear 's little cousin .
20 To him Old Mr. Toad was very polite and talked a great deal about Buster Bear , and thought that Bobby must be very proud to be related to Buster .
21 At first everybody thought it a great joke to see Old Mr. Toad so puffed up with , pride , but after a little they grew tired of being snubbed by their old XXXXX and neighbor , and began to say unpleasant things about him .	friend		Illustration|folks|friend|gossip|heads|name|people|stick|stone|way

1 ` But where is he to find the Witch-maiden ? '
2 said the first bird .
3 ` She has no settled dwelling , but is here to-day and gone to-morrow .
4 He might as well try to catch the wind . '
5 The other replied , ' I do not know , certainly , where she is at present , but in three nights from now she will come to the spring to wash her face , as she does every month when the moon is full , in order that she may never grow old nor wrinkled , but may always keep the bloom of youth . '
6 ` Well , ' said the first bird , ` the spring is not far from here .
7 Shall we go and see how it is she does it ? '
8 ` Willingly , if you like , ' said the other .
9 The youth immediately resolved to follow the birds to the spring , only two things made him uneasy : first , lest he might be asleep when the birds went , and secondly , lest he might lose sight of them , since he had not wings to carry him along so swiftly .
10 He was too tired to keep awake all night , yet his anxiety prevented him from sleeping soundly , and when with the earliest dawn he looked up to the tree-top , he was glad to see his feathered companions still asleep with their heads under their wings .
11 He ate his breakfast , and waited until the birds should start , but they did not leave the place all day .
12 They hopped about from one tree to another looking for food , all day long until the evening , when they went back to their old perch to sleep .
13 The next day the same thing happened , but on the third morning one bird said to the other , ` To-day we must go to the spring to see the Witch-maiden wash her face . '
14 They remained on the tree till noon ; then they flew away and went towards the south .
15 The young man 's heart beat with anxiety lest he should lose sight of his guides , but he managed to keep the birds in view until they again perched upon a tree .
16 The young man ran after them until he was quite exhausted and out of breath , and after three short rests the birds at length reached a small open space in the forest , on the edge of which they placed themselves on the top of a high tree .
17 When the youth had overtaken them , he saw that there was a clear spring in the middle of the space .
18 He sat down at the foot of the tree upon which the birds were perched , and listened attentively to what they were saying to each other .
19 ` The sun is not down yet , ' said the first bird ; ` we must wait yet awhile till the moon rises and the maiden comes to the spring .
20 Do you think she will see that young man sitting under the tree ? '
21 ` Nothing is likely to escape her eyes , certainly not a young man , said the other XXXXX .	bird		To-day|bird|breakfast|companions|man|moon|perch|spring|things|wings

1 He painted his face brown and black , drew his cap well over his face , and knocked at the door .
2 ` Good-day , Emperor , ' he said .
3 ` Can I get a place here as servant in the castle ? '
4 ` Yes , ' said the Emperor , ` but there are so many who ask for a place that I do n't know whether there will be one for you ; but , still , I will think of you .
5 Stay , it has just occurred to me that I want someone to look after the swine , for I have so very many of them . '
6 And the Prince got the situation of Imperial Swineherd .
7 He had a wretched little room close to the pigsties ; here he had to stay , but the whole day he sat working , and when evening was come he had made a pretty little pot .
8 All round it were little bells , and when the pot boiled they jingled most beautifully and played the old tune -- ` Where is Augustus dear ?
9 Alas !
10 he 's not here , here , here ! '
11 But the most wonderful thing was , that when one held one 's finger in the steam of the pot , then at once one could smell what dinner was ready in any fire-place in the town .
12 That was indeed something quite different from the rose .
13 Now the Princess came walking past with all her ladies-in-waiting , and when she heard the tune she stood still and her face beamed with joy , for she also could play ` Where is Augustus dear ? '
14 It was the only tune she knew , but that she could play with one finger .
15 ` Why , that is what I play ! '
16 she said .
17 ` He must be a most accomplished Swineherd !
18 Listen !
19 Go down and ask him what the instrument costs . '
20 And one of the ladies-in-waiting had to go down ; but she put on wooden clogs .
21 ` What will you take for the XXXXX ? '	pot		cap|castle|door|finger|pot|rose|servant|swine|thing|tune

1 After this Hermod disappeared , and no one knew what had become of him ; the Queen caused search to be made for him , but he could nowhere be found .
2 One time , when Olof was in the castle beside Hadvor , she asked the Princess if she knew where Hermod had gone to .
3 At this Hadvor became very sad , and said that she did not . '
4 I shall tell you then , ' said Olof , ` for I know all about it .
5 Hermod has disappeared through the wicked devices of the Queen , for she is a witch , and so is her daughter , though they have put on these beautiful forms .
6 Because Hermod would not fall in with the Queen 's plans , and marry her daughter , she has laid a spell on him , to go on an island and be a lion by day and a man by night , and never be freed from this until you burn the lion 's skin .
7 Besides , ' said Olof , ` she has looked out a match for you ; she has a brother in the Underworld , a three-headed Giant , whom she means to turn into a beautiful prince and get him married to you .
8 This is no new thing for the Queen ; she took me away from my parents ' house and compelled me to serve her ; but she has never done me any harm , for the green cloak I wear protects me against all mischief .
9 Hadvor now became still sadder than before at the thought of the marriage destined for her , and entreated Olof to think of some plan to save her . '
10 I think , ' said Olof , ` that your wooer will come up through the floor of the castle to you , and so you must be prepared when you hear the noise of his coming and the floor begins to open , and have at hand blazing pitch , and pour plenty of it into the opening .
11 That will prove too much for him . '
12 About this time the King came home from his expedition , and thought it a great blow that no one knew what had become of Hermod ; but the Queen consoled him as best she could , and after a time the King thought less about his disappearance .
13 Hadvor remained in her castle , and had made preparations to receive her wooer when he came .
14 One night , not long after , a loud noise and rumbling was heard under the castle .
15 Hadvor at once guessed what it was , and told her maids to be ready to help her .
16 The noise and thundering grew louder and louder , until the floor began to open , whereupon Hadvor made them take the caldron of pitch and pour plenty of it into the opening .
17 With that the noises grew fainter and fainter , till at last they ceased altogether .
18 Next morning the Queen rose early , and went out to the Palace gate , and there she found her brother the Giant lying dead .
19 She went up to him and said , ' I pronounce this spell , that you become a beautiful prince , and that Hadvor shall be unable to say anything against the charges that I shall bring against her . '
20 The body of the dead Giant now became that of a beautiful prince , and the Queen went in again . '
21 I do n't think , ' said she to the King , ` that your XXXXX is as good as she is said to be .	daughter		Giant|Underworld|anything|cloak|daughter|harm|opening|plan|prince|skin

1 Alice could see , as well as if she were looking over their shoulders , that all the jurors were writing down ` stupid things ! '
2 on their slates , and she could even make out that one of them did n't know how to spell ` stupid , ' and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him . '
3 A nice muddle their slates 'll be in before the trial 's over ! '
4 thought Alice .
5 One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked .
6 This of course , Alice could not stand , and she went round the court and got behind him , and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away .
7 She did it so quickly that the poor little juror -LRB- it was Bill , the Lizard -RRB- could not make out at all what had become of it ; so , after hunting all about for it , he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day ; and this was of very little use , as it left no mark on the slate .
8 ` Herald , read the accusation ! '
9 said the King .
10 On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and then unrolled the parchment scroll , and read as follows : -- ` The Queen of Hearts , she made some tarts , All on a summer day : The Knave of Hearts , he stole those tarts , And took them quite away ! '
11 ` Consider your verdict , ' the King said to the jury .
12 ` Not yet , not yet ! '
13 the Rabbit hastily interrupted .
14 ` There 's a great deal to come before that ! '
15 ` Call the first witness , ' said the King ; and the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and called out , ` First witness ! '
16 The first witness was the Hatter .
17 He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other . '
18 I beg pardon , your Majesty , ' he began , ` for bringing these in : but I had n't quite finished my tea when I was sent for . '
19 ` You ought to have finished , ' said the King .
20 ` When did you begin ? '
21 The Hatter looked at the March Hare , who had followed him into the XXXXX , arm-in-arm with the Dormouse .	court		Majesty|course|court|day|jurors|pardon|shoulders|slate|trial|verdict

1 The Josephs were poor at any time , but this winter they were poorer than ever .
2 The crops had failed in the summer , and as a consequence the family were , as Jimmy said , `` on short commons . ''
3 But they made the brave best of their small resources , and on Christmas Eve every little Joseph went to bed with a clear conscience , for was there not on the corner table in the kitchen a small mountain of tiny -- sometimes very tiny -- gifts labelled with the names of recipients and givers , and worth their weight in gold if love and good wishes count for anything ?
4 It was beginning to snow when the small small Josephs went to bed , and when the big small Josephs climbed the stairs it was snowing thickly .
5 Mr. and Mrs. Joseph sat before the fire and listened to the wind howling about the house .
6 `` I 'm glad I 'm not driving over the prairie tonight , '' said Mr. Joseph .
7 `` It 's quite a storm .
8 I hope it will be fine tomorrow , for the children 's sake .
9 They 've set their hearts on having a sleigh ride , and it will be too bad if they ca n't have it when it 's about all the Christmas they 'll have this year .
10 Mary , this is the first Christmas since we came west that we could n't afford some little extras for them , even if 't was only a box of nuts and candy . ''
11 Mrs. Joseph sighed over Jimmy 's worn jacket which she was mending .
12 Then she smiled .
13 `` Never mind , John .
14 Things will be better next Christmas , we 'll hope .
15 The children will not mind , bless their hearts .
16 Look at all the little knick-knacks they 've made for each other .
17 Last week when I was over at Taunton , Mr. Fisher had his store all gayified up , ' as Jim says , with Christmas presents .
18 I did feel that I 'd ask nothing better than to go in and buy all the lovely things I wanted , just for once , and give them to the children tomorrow morning .
19 They 've never had anything really nice for Christmas .
20 But there !
21 We 've all got each other and good health and spirits , and a XXXXX would n't be much without those if we had all the presents in the world . ''	Christmas		Christmas|Mr.|anything|crops|extras|knick-knacks|nothing|time|week|year

1 ` You are a fine fellow ! '
2 said the Soldier , and put him on the Witch 's apron , took as much copper as his pockets could hold ; then he shut the chest , put the dog on it again , and went into the second room .
3 Sure enough there sat the dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels .
4 ` You had better not look at me so hard ! '
5 said the Soldier .
6 ` Your eyes will come out of their sockets ! '
7 And then he set the dog on the apron .
8 When he saw all the silver in the chest , he threw away the copper he had taken , and filled his pockets and knapsack with nothing but silver .
9 Then he went into the third room .
10 Horrors !
11 the dog there had two eyes , each as large as the Round Tower at Copenhagen , spinning round in his head like wheels .
12 ` Good evening ! '
13 said the Soldier and saluted , for he had never seen a dog like this before .
14 But when he had examined him more closely , he thought to himself : ` Now then , I 've had enough of this ! '
15 and put him down on the floor , and opened the chest .
16 Heavens !
17 what a heap of gold there was !
18 With all that he could buy up the whole town , and all the sugar pigs , all the tin soldiers , whips and rocking-horses in the whole world .
19 Now he threw away all the silver with which he had filled his pockets and knapsack , and filled them with gold instead -- yes , all his pockets , his knapsack , cap and boots even , so that he could hardly walk .
20 Now he was rich indeed .
21 He put the dog back upon the chest , shut the door , and then called up through the tree : ` Now pull me up again , old XXXXX ! '	Witch		Horrors|Witch|boots|cap|chest|floor|nothing|room|silver|sockets

1 But when he saw Thumbelina , he was delighted , for she was the most beautiful girl he had ever seen .
2 So he took his golden crown from off his head and put it on hers , asking her her name , and if she would be his wife , and then she would be Queen of all the flowers .
3 Yes !
4 he was a different kind of husband to the son of the toad and the mole with the black-velvet coat .
5 So she said ` Yes ' to the noble Prince .
6 And out of each flower came a lady and gentleman , each so tiny and pretty that it was a pleasure to see them .
7 Each brought Thumbelina a present , but the best of all was a beautiful pair of wings which were fastened on to her back , and now she too could fly from flower to flower .
8 They all wished her joy , and the swallow sat above in his nest and sang the wedding march , and that he did as well as he could ; but he was sad , because he was very fond of Thumbelina and did not want to be separated from her .
9 ` You shall not be called Thumbelina ! '
10 said the spirit of the flower to her ; ` that is an ugly name , and you are much too pretty for that .
11 We will call you May Blossom . '
12 ` Farewell , farewell ! '
13 said the little swallow with a heavy heart , and flew away to farther lands , far , far away , right back to Denmark .
14 There he had a little nest above a window , where his wife lived , who can tell fairy-stories .
15 ` Tweet , tweet ! '
16 he sang to her .
17 And that is the way we learnt the whole story .
18 THE NIGHTINGALE In China , as I daresay you know , the Emperor is a Chinaman , and all his courtiers are also Chinamen .
19 The story I am going to tell you happened many years ago , but it is worth while for you to listen to it , before it is forgotten .
20 The Emperor 's Palace was the most splendid in the world , all made of priceless porcelain , but so brittle and delicate that you had to take great care how you touched it .
21 In the garden were the most beautiful XXXXX , and on the loveliest of them were tied silver bells which tinkled , so that if you passed you could not help looking at the flowers .	flowers		Farewell|Palace|crown|flowers|girl|heart|name|nest|pleasure|wife

1 ` What is there odd about it ? '
2 said the Cat .
3 ` It is not worse than Breadthief , as your godchild is called . '
4 Not long after this another great longing came over the Cat .
5 She said to the Mouse , ` You must again be kind enough to look after the house alone , for I have been asked a second time to stand godmother , and as this child has a white ring round its neck , I can not refuse . '
6 The kind Mouse agreed , but the Cat slunk under the town wall to the church , and ate up half of the pot of fat .
7 ` Nothing tastes better , ' said she , ` than what one eats by oneself , ' and she was very much pleased with her day 's work .
8 When she came home the Mouse asked , ` What was this child called ? '
9 ` Half Gone , ' answered the Cat .
10 ` Halfgone !
11 what a name !
12 I have never heard it in my life .
13 I do n't believe it is in the calendar . '
14 Soon the Cat 's mouth began to water once more after her licking business .
15 ` All good things in threes , ' she said to the Mouse ; ' I have again to stand godmother .
16 The child is quite black , and has very white paws , but not a single white hair on its body .
17 This only happens once in two years , so you will let me go out ? '
18 ` Topoff !
19 Halfgone ! '
20 repeated the Mouse , ` they are such curious names ; they make me very thoughtful . '
21 ` Oh , you sit at XXXXX in your dark grey coat and your long tail , ' said the Cat , ` and you get fanciful .	home		Cat|Mouse|calendar|child|hair|home|house|longing|name|names

1 She had hardly left him when the two black wolves appeared : but the Sun-Hero beat them off with his sword , and they retired , only , however , to reappear in a very short time .
2 The Sun-Hero chased them away once more , but he had hardly sat down to rest when the two black wolves were on the scene again .
3 This went on for seven days and nights , when the white horse , who had never done such a thing before , turned to the Sun-Hero and said in a human voice : ` Listen to what I am going to say .
4 A Fairy gave me to your mother in order that I might be of service to you ; so let me tell you , that if you go to sleep and let the wolves harm the tree , the Sun will surely kill you .
5 The Fairy , foreseeing this , put everyone in the world under a spell , which prevents their obeying the Sun 's command to take your life .
6 But all the same , she has forgotten one person , who will certainly kill you if you fall asleep and let the wolves damage the tree .
7 So watch and keep the wolves away . '
8 Then the Sun-Hero strove with all his might and kept the black wolves at bay , and conquered his desire to sleep ; but on the eighth night his strength failed him , and he fell fast asleep .
9 When he awoke a woman in black stood beside him , who said : ` You have fulfilled your task very badly , for you have let the two black wolves damage the Tree of the Sun .
10 I am the mother of the Sun , and I command you to ride away from here at once , and I pronounce sentence of death upon you , for you proudly let yourself be called the Sun-Hero without having done anything to deserve the name . '
11 The youth mounted his horse sadly , and rode home .
12 The people all thronged round him on his return , anxious to hear his adventures , but he told them nothing , and only to his mother did he confide what had befallen him .
13 But the old Queen laughed , and said to her son : ` Do n't worry , my child ; you see , the Fairy has protected you so far , and the Sun has found no one to kill you .
14 So cheer up and be happy . '
15 After a time the Prince forgot all about his adventure , and married a beautiful Princess , with whom he lived very happily for some time .
16 But one day when he was out hunting he felt very thirsty , and coming to a stream he stooped down to drink from it , and this caused his death , for a crab came swimming up , and with its claws tore out his tongue .
17 He was carried home in a dying condition , and as he lay on his death-bed the black woman appeared and said : ` So the Sun has , after all , found someone , who was not under the Fairy 's spell , who has caused your death .
18 And a similar fate will overtake everyone under the Sun who wrongfully assumes a title to which he has no right . '
19 THE WITCH -LRB- 28 -RRB- -LRB- 28 -RRB- From the Russian .
20 Once upon a time there was a peasant whose wife died , leaving him with two children -- twins -- a boy and a girl .
21 For some years the poor man lived on alone with the children , caring for them as best he could ; but everything in the house seemed to go wrong without a XXXXX to look after it , and at last he made up his mind to marry again , feeling that a wife would bring peace and order to his household and take care of his motherless children .	woman		boy|children|death|everyone|hunting|stream|wolves|woman|world|youth

1 So the witch saw there was no help to be got from her old servants , and that the best thing she could do was to mount on her broom and set off in pursuit of the children .
2 And as the children ran they heard the sound of the broom sweeping the ground close behind them , so instantly they threw the handkerchief down over their shoulder , and in a moment a deep , broad river flowed behind them .
3 When the witch came up to it , it took her a long time before she found a place which she could ford over on her broom-stick ; but at last she got across , and continued the chase faster than before .
4 And as the children ran they heard a sound , and the little sister put her ear to the ground , and heard the broom sweeping the earth close behind them ; so , quick as thought , she threw the comb down on the ground , and in an instant , as the cat had said , a dense forest sprung up , in which the roots and branches were so closely intertwined , that it was impossible to force a way through it .
5 So when the witch came up to it on her broom she found that there was nothing for it but to turn round and go back to her hut .
6 But the twins ran straight on till they reached their own home .
7 Then they told their father all that they had suffered , and he was so angry with their step-mother that he drove her out of the house , and never let her return ; but he and the children lived happily together ; and he took care of them himself , and never let a stranger come near them .
8 THE HAZEL-NUT CHILD -LRB- 29 -RRB- -LRB- 29 -RRB- From the Bukowniaer .
9 Van Wliolocki .
10 There was once upon a time a couple who had no children , and they prayed Heaven every day to send them a child , though it were no bigger than a hazel-nut .
11 At last Heaven heard their prayer and sent them a child exactly the size of a hazel-nut , and it never grew an inch .
12 The parents were very devoted to the little creature , and nursed and tended it carefully .
13 Their tiny son too was as clever as he could be , and so sharp and sensible that all the neighbours marvelled over the wise things he said and did .
14 When the Hazel-nut child was fifteen years old , and was sitting one day in an egg-shell on the table beside his mother , she turned to him and said , ` You are now fifteen years old , and nothing can be done with you .
15 What do you intend to be ? ' '
16 A messenger , ' answered the Hazel-nut child .
17 Then his mother burst out laughing and said , ` What an idea !
18 You a messenger !
19 Why , your little feet would take an hour to go the distance an ordinary person could do in a minute ! '
20 But the Hazel-nut child replied , ` Nevertheless I mean to be a messenger !
21 Just send me a message and you 'll see that I shall be back in next to no XXXXX . '	time		cat|earth|father|instant|neighbours|prayer|river|thing|time|twins

1 ` You had best call me Snati-Snati , ' said the Dog .
2 ` Now we are coming to a King 's seat , and you must ask the King to keep us all winter , and to give you a little room for both of us . '
3 The Prince now began to be less afraid of the Dog .
4 They came to the King and asked him to keep them all the winter , to which he agreed .
5 When the King 's men saw the Dog they began to laugh at it , and make as if they would tease it ; but when the Prince saw this he advised them not to do it , or they might have the worst of it .
6 They replied that they did n't care a bit what he thought .
7 After Ring had been with the King for some days the latter began to think there was a great deal in him , and esteemed him more than the others .
8 The King , however , had a counsellor called Red , who became very jealous when he saw how much the King esteemed Ring ; and one day he talked to him , and said he could not understand why he had so good an opinion of this stranger , who had not yet shown himself superior to other men in anything .
9 The King replied that it was only a short time since he had come there .
10 Red then asked him to send them both to cut down wood next morning , and see which of them could do most work .
11 Snati-Snati heard this and told it to Ring , advising him to ask the King for two axes , so that he might have one in reserve if the first one got broken .
12 Next morning the King asked Ring and Red to go and cut down trees for him , and both agreed .
13 Ring got the two axes , and each went his own way ; but when the Prince had got out into the wood Snati took one of the axes and began to hew along with him .
14 In the evening the King came to look over their day 's work , as Red had proposed , and found that Ring 's wood-heap was more than twice as big . '
15 I suspected , ' said the King , ` that Ring was not quite useless ; never have I seen such a day 's work . '
16 Ring was now in far greater esteem with the King than before , and Red was all the more discontented .
17 One day he came to the King and said , ` If Ring is such a mighty man , I think you might ask him to kill the wild oxen in the wood here , and flay them the same day , and bring you the horns and the hides in the evening . '
18 ` Do n't you think that a desperate errand ? '
19 said the King , ` seeing they are so dangerous , and no one has ever yet ventured to go against them ? '
20 Red answered that he had only one life to lose , and it would be interesting to see how brave he was ; besides , the King would have good reason to ennoble him if he overcame them .
21 The King at last allowed himself , though rather unwillingly , to be won over by Red 's persistency , and one day asked Ring to go and kill the oxen that were in the wood for him , and bring their XXXXX and hides to him in the evening .	horns		Ring|bit|day|errand|horns|life|reserve|way|winter|work

1 said Big Klaus ; and , hurrying home , he took an axe and killed his grandmother , laid her in the cart , and drove off to the apothecary 's , and asked whether he wanted to buy a dead body .
2 ` Who is it , and how did you get it ? '
3 asked the apothecary .
4 ` It is my grandmother , ' said Big Klaus . '
5 I killed her in order to get a bushel of money . '
6 ` You are mad ! '
7 said the apothecary .
8 ` Do n't mention such things , or you will lose your head ! '
9 And he began to tell him what a dreadful thing he had done , and what a wicked man he was , and that he ought to be punished ; till Big Klaus was so frightened that he jumped into the cart and drove home as hard as he could .
10 The apothecary and all the people thought he must be mad , so they let him go .
11 ` You shall pay for this ! '
12 said Big Klaus as he drove home .
13 ` You shall pay for this dearly , Little Klaus ! '
14 So as soon as he got home he took the largest sack he could find , and went to Little Klaus and said : ` You have fooled me again !
15 First I killed my horses , then my grandmother !
16 It is all your fault ; but you sha 'n' t do it again ! '
17 And he seized Little Klaus , pushed him in the sack , threw it over his shoulder , crying out ` Now I am going to drown you ! '
18 He had to go a long way before he came to the river , and Little Klaus was not very light .
19 The road passed by the church ; the organ was sounding , and the people were singing most beautifully .
20 Big Klaus put down the sack with Little Klaus in it by the church-door , and thought that he might as well go in and hear a psalm before going on farther .
21 Little Klaus could not get out , and everybody was in XXXXX ; so he went in .	church		apothecary|axe|body|cart|church|fault|grandmother|order|psalm|things

1 When he was not learning he sat out in the sun and slept , and ate and went to sleep again .
2 When he felt dirty or hot he swam in the forest pools ; and when he wanted honey -LRB- Baloo told him that honey and nuts were just as pleasant to eat as raw meat -RRB- he climbed up for it , and that Bagheera showed him how to do .
3 Bagheera would lie out on a branch and call , `` Come along , Little Brother , '' and at first Mowgli would cling like the sloth , but afterward he would fling himself through the branches almost as boldly as the gray ape .
4 He took his place at the Council Rock , too , when the Pack met , and there he discovered that if he stared hard at any wolf , the wolf would be forced to drop his eyes , and so he used to stare for fun .
5 At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the pads of his friends , for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and burs in their coats .
6 He would go down the hillside into the cultivated lands by night , and look very curiously at the villagers in their huts , but he had a mistrust of men because Bagheera showed him a square box with a drop gate so cunningly hidden in the jungle that he nearly walked into it , and told him that it was a trap .
7 He loved better than anything else to go with Bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest , to sleep all through the drowsy day , and at night see how Bagheera did his killing .
8 Bagheera killed right and left as he felt hungry , and so did Mowgli -- with one exception .
9 As soon as he was old enough to understand things , Bagheera told him that he must never touch cattle because he had been bought into the Pack at the price of a bull 's life .
10 `` All the jungle is thine , '' said Bagheera , `` and thou canst kill everything that thou art strong enough to kill ; but for the sake of the bull that bought thee thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old .
11 That is the Law of the Jungle . ''
12 Mowgli obeyed faithfully .
13 And he grew and grew strong as a boy must grow who does not know that he is learning any lessons , and who has nothing in the world to think of except things to eat .
14 Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere Khan was not a creature to be trusted , and that some day he must kill Shere Khan .
15 But though a young wolf would have remembered that advice every hour , Mowgli forgot it because he was only a boy -- though he would have called himself a wolf if he had been able to speak in any human tongue .
16 Shere Khan was always crossing his path in the jungle , for as Akela grew older and feebler the lame tiger had come to be great friends with the younger wolves of the Pack , who followed him for scraps , a thing Akela would never have allowed if he had dared to push his authority to the proper bounds .
17 Then Shere Khan would flatter them and wonder that such fine young hunters were content to be led by a dying wolf and a man 's cub .
18 `` They tell me , '' Shere Khan would say , `` that at Council ye dare not look him between the eyes . ''
19 And the young wolves would growl and bristle .
20 Bagheera , who had eyes and ears everywhere , knew something of this , and once or twice he told Mowgli in so many words that Shere Khan would kill him some day .
21 Mowgli would laugh and answer : `` I have the Pack and I have thee ; and Baloo , though he is so lazy , might strike a blow or two for my XXXXX .	sake		Jungle|Law|advice|anything|branches|day|fun|hillside|pads|sake

1 He was scarred all over with the marks of savage fights , but he was always ready for just one fight more .
2 He would put his head on one side , as though he were afraid to look his enemy in the face ; then he would shoot it out like lightning , and when the big teeth were firmly fixed on the other seal 's neck , the other seal might get away if he could , but Sea Catch would not help him .
3 Yet Sea Catch never chased a beaten seal , for that was against the Rules of the Beach .
4 He only wanted room by the sea for his nursery .
5 But as there were forty or fifty thousand other seals hunting for the same thing each spring , the whistling , bellowing , roaring , and blowing on the beach was something frightful .
6 From a little hill called Hutchinson 's Hill , you could look over three and a half miles of ground covered with fighting seals ; and the surf was dotted all over with the heads of seals hurrying to land and begin their share of the fighting .
7 They fought in the breakers , they fought in the sand , and they fought on the smooth-worn basalt rocks of the nurseries , for they were just as stupid and unaccommodating as men .
8 Their wives never came to the island until late in May or early in June , for they did not care to be torn to pieces ; and the young two - , three - , and four-year-old seals who had not begun housekeeping went inland about half a mile through the ranks of the fighters and played about on the sand dunes in droves and legions , and rubbed off every single green thing that grew .
9 They were called the holluschickie -- the bachelors -- and there were perhaps two or three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah alone .
10 Sea Catch had just finished his forty-fifth fight one spring when Matkah , his soft , sleek , gentle-eyed wife , came up out of the sea , and he caught her by the scruff of the neck and dumped her down on his reservation , saying gruffly : `` Late as usual .
11 Where have you been ? ''
12 It was not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during the four months he stayed on the beaches , and so his temper was generally bad .
13 Matkah knew better than to answer back .
14 She looked round and cooed : `` How thoughtful of you .
15 You 've taken the old place again . ''
16 `` I should think I had , '' said Sea Catch .
17 `` Look at me ! ''
18 He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places ; one eye was almost out , and his sides were torn to ribbons .
19 `` Oh , you men , you men ! ''
20 Matkah said , fanning herself with her hind flipper .
21 `` Why ca n't you be sensible and settle your XXXXX quietly ?	places		breakers|enemy|fight|mile|places|ribbons|seals|side|teeth|wives

1 `` This must be put an end to , '' he said .
2 `` This advertisement must not appear again .
3 I wo n't have it ! ''
4 `` But I 've signed a contract that it is to run for six months , '' I said sturdily .
5 `` And I 've others in view .
6 You remember the Herb Cure you recommended one spring and that it did me so much good !
7 I 'm negotiating with the makers of that and -- '' `` The girl 's mad ! ''
8 said Uncle Abimelech .
9 `` Stark , staring mad ! ''
10 `` Oh , no , I 'm not , Uncle Abimelech .
11 I 'm merely a pretty good businesswoman .
12 You wo n't help Murray to go to college , so I must .
13 This is the only way I have , and I 'm going to see it through . ''
14 After Uncle Abimelech had gone , still in a towering rage , Murray remonstrated .
15 But I reminded him of his promise and he had to succumb .
16 Next day Uncle Abimelech returned -- a subdued and chastened Uncle Abimelech .
17 `` See here , Prue , '' he said sternly .
18 `` This thing must be stopped .
19 I say it must .
20 I am not going to have the name of Melville dragged all over the country in a patent medicine advertisement .
21 You 've played your game and won it -- take what comfort you can out of the confession : If you will agree to cancel this notorious contract of yours I 'll settle it with the company -- and I 'll put Murray through XXXXX -- and you too if you want to go !	college		Stark|advertisement|college|day|girl|makers|name|promise|rage|thing

1 In the middle of the spear you must have two strong chains ten fathoms in length .
2 As soon as the Dragon has made himself fast to the spear , which you must thrust through his jaws , you must spring quickly from the iron horse and fasten the ends of the chains firmly to the ground with iron stakes , so that he can not get away from them .
3 After two or three days the monster 's strength will be so far exhausted that you will be able to come near him .
4 Then you can put Solomon 's ring upon your left thumb and give him the finishing stroke , but keep the ring on your third finger until you have come close to him , so that the monster can not see you , else he might strike you dead with his long tail .
5 But when all is done , take care you do not lose the ring , and that no one takes it from you by cunning . '
6 The young man thanked the magician for his directions , and promised , should they succeed , to reward him .
7 But the magician answered , ' I have profited so much by the wisdom the ring has taught me that I desire no other reward . '
8 Then they parted , and the youth quickly flew home through the air .
9 After remaining in his own home for some weeks , he heard people say that the terrible Dragon of the North was not far off , and might shortly be expected in the country .
10 The King announced publicly that he would give his daughter in marriage , as well as a large part of his kingdom , to whosoever should free the country from the monster .
11 The youth then went to the King and told him that he had good hopes of subduing the Dragon , if the King would grant him all he desired for the purpose .
12 The King willingly agreed , and the iron horse , the great spear , and the chains were all prepared as the youth requested .
13 When all was ready , it was found that the iron horse was so heavy that a hundred men could not move it from the spot , so the youth found there was nothing for it but to move it with his own strength by means of the magic ring .
14 The Dragon was now so near that in a couple of springs he would be over the frontier .
15 The youth now began to consider how he should act , for if he had to push the iron horse from behind he could not ride upon it as the sorcerer had said he must .
16 But a raven unexpectedly gave him this advice : ` Ride upon the horse , and push the spear against the ground , as if you were pushing off a boat from the land . '
17 The youth did so , and found that in this way he could easily move forwards .
18 The Dragon had his monstrous jaws wide open , all ready for his expected prey .
19 A few paces nearer , and man and horse would have been swallowed up by them !
20 The youth trembled with horror , and his blood ran cold , yet he did not lose his courage ; but , holding the iron spear upright in his hand , he brought it down with all his might right through the monster 's lower jaw .
21 Then quick as lightning he sprang from his horse before the XXXXX had time to shut his mouth .	Dragon		Dragon|North|advice|frontier|land|paces|purpose|spear|thumb|youth

1 One day , whilst passing near a fountain in the garden , she noticed that the sun 's rays fell on the water in such a manner as to produce a brilliant rainbow .
2 She stood still to admire it , when , to her great surprise , she heard a voice addressing her which seemed to come from the centre of its rays .
3 The voice was that of a young man , and its sweetness of tone and the agreeable things it uttered , led one to infer that its owner must be equally charming ; but this had to be a mere matter of fancy , for no one was visible .
4 The beautiful Rainbow informed Fairer-than-a-Fairy that he was young , the son of a powerful king , and that the Fairy , Lagree , who owed his parents a grudge , had revenged herself by depriving him of his natural shape for some years ; that she had imprisoned him in the palace , where he had found his confinement hard to bear for some time , but now , he owned , he no longer sighed for freedom since he had seen and learned to love Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
5 He added many other tender speeches to this declaration , and the Princess , to whom such remarks were a new experience , could not help feeling pleased and touched by his attentions .
6 The Prince could only appear or speak under the form of a Rainbow , and it was therefore necessary that the sun should shine on water so as to enable the rays to form themselves .
7 Fairer-than-a-Fairy lost no moment in which she could meet her lover , and they enjoyed many long and interesting interviews .
8 One day , however , their conversation became so absorbing and time passed so quickly that the Princess forgot to attend to the fire , and it went out .
9 Lagree , on her return , soon found out the neglect , and seemed only too pleased to have the opportunity of showing her spite to her lovely prisoner .
10 She ordered Fairer-than-a-Fairy to start next day at dawn to ask Locrinos for fire with which to relight the one she had allowed to go out .
11 Now this Locrinos was a cruel monster who devoured everyone he came across , and especially enjoyed a chance of catching and eating any young girls .
12 Our heroine obeyed with great sweetness , and without having been able to take leave of her lover she set off to go to Locrinos as to certain death .
13 As she was crossing a wood a bird sang to her to pick up a shining pebble which she would find in a fountain close by , and to use it when needed .
14 She took the bird 's advice , and in due time arrived at the house of Locrinos .
15 Luckily she only found his wife at home , who was much struck by the Princess 's youth and beauty and sweet gentle manners , and still further impressed by the present of the shining pebble .
16 She readily let Fairer-than-a-Fairy have the fire , and in return for the stone she gave her another , which , she said , might prove useful some day .
17 Then she sent her away without doing her any harm .
18 Lagree was as much surprised as displeased at the happy result of this expedition , and Fairer-than-a Fairy waited anxiously for an opportunity of meeting Prince Rainbow and telling him her adventures .
19 She found , however , that he had already been told all about them by a Fairy who protected him , and to whom he was related .
20 The dread of fresh dangers to his beloved Princess made him devise some more convenient way of meeting than by the garden fountain , and Fairer-than-a-Fairy carried out his plan daily with entire success .
21 Every morning she placed a large basin full of water on her window-sill , and as soon as the sun 's rays fell on the water the Rainbow appeared as clearly as it had ever done in the XXXXX .	fountain		death|fountain|house|leave|man|monster|parents|pebble|son|surprise

1 ` Where are you going to ? '
2 he said . '
3 I am going about asking for the Blue Mountains , ' said the Irishman .
4 ` The Blue Mountains ? '
5 said the old man .
6 ` Yes , ' said the Irishman . '
7 I never heard the name before ; but if they do exist I shall find them out .
8 I am master of all the birds in the world , and have only to blow my whistle and every one will come to me .
9 I shall then ask each of them to tell where it came from , and if there is any way of finding out the Blue Mountains that is it . '
10 So he blew his whistle , and when he blew it then all the birds of the world began to gather .
11 The old man questioned each of them as to where they had come from , but there was not one of them that had come from the Blue Mountains .
12 After he had run over them all , however , he missed a big Eagle that was wanting , and wondered that it had not come .
13 Soon afterwards he saw something big coming towards him , darkening the sky .
14 It kept coming nearer and growing bigger , and what was this after all but the Eagle ?
15 When she arrived the old man scolded her , and asked what had kept her so long behind . '
16 I could n't help it , ' she said ; ' I had more than twenty times further to come than any bird that has come here to-day . '
17 ` Where have you come from , then ? '
18 said the old man .
19 ` From the Blue Mountains , ' said she .
20 ` Indeed ! '
21 said the old XXXXX ; and what are they doing there ? '	man		Eagle|birds|man|master|name|sky|something|times|way|world

1 ` To the village , ' said the man .
2 ` Do you mean to say there is no straw in the village ? '
3 ` Ah !
4 but this is quite a peculiar straw .
5 If you strew it about even in the hottest summer the air at once becomes cold , and snow falls , and the people freeze . '
6 Then the Simpleton asked him also to join them .
7 At last the ship , with its strange crew , arrived at the King 's Court .
8 The King was having his dinner , but he at once despatched one of his courtiers to find out what the huge , strange new bird could be that had come flying through the air .
9 The courtier peeped into the ship , and , seeing what it was , instantly went back to the King and told him that it was a flying ship , and that it was manned by a few peasants .
10 Then the King remembered his royal oath ; but he made up his mind that he would never consent to let the Princess marry a poor peasant .
11 So he thought and thought , and then said to himself : ' I will give him some impossible tasks to perform ; that will be the best way of getting rid of him . '
12 And he there and then decided to despatch one of his courtiers to the Simpleton , with the command that he was to fetch the King the healing water from the world 's end before he had finished his dinner .
13 But while the King was still instructing the courtier exactly what he was to say , the first man of the ship 's company , the one with the miraculous power of hearing , had overheard the King 's words , and hastily reported them to the poor Simpleton .
14 ` Alas , alas ! '
15 he cried ; ` what am I to do now ?
16 It would take me quite a year , possibly my whole life , to find the water . '
17 ` Never fear , ' said his fleet-footed comrade , ' I will fetch what the King wants . '
18 Just then the courtier arrived , bearing the King 's command .
19 ` Tell his Majesty , ' said the Simpleton , ` that his orders shall be obeyed ; ` and forthwith the swift runner unbound the foot that was strung up behind his ear and started off , and in less than no time had reached the world 's end and drawn the healing water from the well .
20 ` Dear me , ' he thought to himself , ` that 's rather tiring !
21 I 'll just rest for a few minutes ; it will be some little XXXXX yet before the King has got to dessert . '	time		Simpleton|command|comrade|people|straw|summer|tasks|time|water|world

1 ` Well , you have done well enough for to-day , ' she grumbled ; ` but to-morrow you 'll have something more difficult to do , and if you do n't do it well , you pampered brats , straight into the oven you go . '
2 Half-dead with fright , and trembling in every limb , the poor children lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dared not close their eyes , and scarcely ventured to breathe .
3 In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips .
4 Then the witch left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood .
5 As soon as she had gone out of sight the children took the comb and the handkerchief , and , taking one another by the hand , they started and ran , and ran , and ran .
6 And first they met the watch-dog , who was going to leap on them and tear them to pieces ; but they threw the remains of their bread to him , and he ate them and wagged his tail .
7 Then they were hindered by the birch-trees , whose branches almost put their eyes out .
8 But the little sister tied the twigs together with a piece of ribbon , and they got past safely , and , after running through the wood , came out on to the open fields .
9 In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen and tangling the threads as it wove .
10 And the witch returned to see how the children were getting on ; and she crept up to the window , and whispered : ` Are you weaving , my little dear ? '
11 ` Yes , granny , I am weaving , ' answered the cat .
12 When the witch saw that the children had escaped her , she was furious , and , hitting the cat with a porringer , she said : ` Why did you let the children leave the hut ?
13 Why did you not scratch their eyes out ? '
14 But the cat curled up its tail and put its back up , and answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never even threw me a bone , but the dear children gave me their own piece of ham . '
15 Then the witch was furious with the watch-dog and with the birch-trees , because they had let the children pass .
16 But the dog answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never gave me so much as a hard crust , but the dear children gave me their own loaf of bread . '
17 And the birch rustled its leaves , and said : ' I have served you longer than I can say , and you never tied a bit of twine even round my branches ; and the dear children bound them up with their brightest ribbons . '
18 So the witch saw there was no help to be got from her old servants , and that the best thing she could do was to mount on her broom and set off in pursuit of the children .
19 And as the children ran they heard the sound of the broom sweeping the ground close behind them , so instantly they threw the handkerchief down over their shoulder , and in a moment a deep , broad river flowed behind them .
20 When the witch came up to it , it took her a long time before she found a place which she could ford over on her broom-stick ; but at last she got across , and continued the chase faster than before .
21 And as the children ran they heard a sound , and the little sister put her ear to the ground , and heard the broom sweeping the earth close behind them ; so , quick as thought , she threw the comb down on the ground , and in an instant , as the XXXXX had said , a dense forest sprung up , in which the roots and branches were so closely intertwined , that it was impossible to force a way through it .	cat		bit|cat|comb|ground|leaves|limb|oven|pieces|river|sight

1 Forgive me -- forgive me -- say that you forgive me . ''
2 `` It 's all right , my girl , '' he said feebly .
3 She buried her face in the pillow beside his with a sob .
4 In the wan , grey light of the autumn dawn the old doctor came to the bedside and lifted Emily to her feet .
5 She had not stirred the whole night .
6 Now she raised her white face with dumb pleading in her eyes .
7 The doctor glanced at the sleeping form on the bed .
8 `` Your husband will live , Mrs. Fair , '' he said gently .
9 `` I think your coming saved him .
10 His joy turned the ebbing tide in favour of life . ''
11 `` Thank God ! ''
12 said Emily .
13 And for the first time in her life her beautiful voice trembled .
14 Min The morning sun hung , a red , lustreless ball , in the dull grey sky .
15 A light snow had fallen in the night and the landscape , crossed by spider-like trails of fences , was as white and lifeless as if wrapped in a shroud .
16 A young man was driving down the road to Rykman 's Corner ; the youthful face visible above the greatcoat was thoughtful and refined , the eyes deep blue and peculiarly beautiful , the mouth firm yet sensitive .
17 It was not a handsome face , but there was a strangely subtle charm about it .
18 The chill breathlessness of the air seemed prophetic of more snow .
19 The Reverend Allan Telford looked across the bare wastes and cold white hills and shivered , as if the icy lifelessness about him were slowly and relentlessly creeping into his own heart and life .
20 He felt utterly discouraged .
21 In his soul he was asking bitterly what good had come of all his prayerful labours among the people of this pinched , narrow world , as rugged and unbeautiful in form and life as the barren XXXXX that shut them in .	hills		God|fences|form|girl|hills|joy|man|pillow|snow|time

1 But it was not a book , but a little mechanical toy , which lay in a box -- an artificial nightingale which was like the real one , only that it was set all over with diamonds , rubies , and sapphires .
2 When it was wound up , it could sing the piece the real bird sang , and moved its tail up and down , and glittered with silver and gold .
3 Round its neck was a little collar on which was written , ` The Nightingale of the Emperor of Japan is nothing compared to that of the Emperor of China . '
4 ` This is magnificent ! '
5 they all said , and the man who had brought the clockwork bird received on the spot the title of ` Bringer of the Imperial First Nightingale . '
6 ` Now they must sing together ; what a duet we shall have ! '
7 And so they sang together , but their voices did not blend , for the real Nightingale sang in her way and the clockwork bird sang waltzes .
8 ` It is not its fault ! '
9 said the bandmaster ; ` it keeps very good time and is quite after my style ! '
10 Then the artificial bird had to sing alone .
11 It gave just as much pleasure as the real one , and then it was so much prettier to look at ; it sparkled like bracelets and necklaces .
12 Three-and-thirty times it sang the same piece without being tired .
13 People would like to have heard it again , but the Emperor thought that the living Nightingale should sing now -- but where was she ?
14 No one had noticed that she had flown out of the open window away to her green woods .
15 ` What SHALL we do ! '
16 said the Emperor .
17 And all the Court scolded , and said that the Nightingale was very ungrateful .
18 ` But we have still the best bird ! '
19 they said and the artificial bird had to sing again , and that was the thirty-fourth time they had heard the same piece .
20 But they did not yet know it by heart ; it was much too difficult .
21 And the bandmaster praised the bird tremendously ; yes , he assured them it was better than a real nightingale , not only because of its beautiful plumage and XXXXX , but inside as well .	diamonds		Court|Round|bird|diamonds|duet|heart|man|times|toy|window

1 They called a meeting extraordinary in the classroom and , discarding all forms and ceremonies in their wrath , talked their indignation out .
2 Out of doors the world basked in June sunshine and preened itself in blossom .
3 The birds sang and chirped in the lichened maples that cupped the little church in , and peace was over all the Putney valley .
4 Inside the classroom disgusted women buzzed like angry bees .
5 `` What on earth are we to do ? ''
6 sighed the secretary plaintively .
7 Mary Kilburn was always plaintive .
8 She sat on the steps of the platform , being too wrought up in her mind to sit in her chair at the desk , and her thin , faded little face was twisted with anxiety .
9 `` All the arrangements are made and Mrs. Cotterell is coming on the tenth .
10 How can we tell her that the men wo n't let her speak ? ''
11 `` There was never anything like this in Putney church before , '' groaned Mrs. Elder Knox .
12 `` It was Andrew McKittrick put them up to it .
13 I always said that man would make trouble here yet , ever since he moved to Putney from Danbridge .
14 I 've talked and argued with Thomas until I 'm dumb , but he is as set as a rock . ''
15 `` I do n't see what business the men have to interfere with us anyhow , '' said her daughter Lucy , who was sitting on one of the window-sills .
16 `` We do n't meddle with them , I 'm sure .
17 As if Mrs. Cotterell would contaminate the pulpit ! ''
18 `` One would think we were still in the dark ages , '' said Frances Spenslow sharply .
19 Frances was the Putney schoolteacher .
20 Her father was one of the recalcitrant elders and Frances felt it bitterly -- all the more that she had tried to argue with him and had been sat upon as a `` child who could n't understand . ''
21 `` I 'm more surprised at Mr. Sinclair than at the XXXXX , '' said Mrs. Abner Keech , fanning herself vigorously .	elders		ages|anxiety|anything|ceremonies|chair|elders|face|father|men|valley

1 Akela , the grim old wolf who had never asked for mercy in his life , gave one piteous look at Mowgli as the boy stood all naked , his long black hair tossing over his shoulders in the light of the blazing branch that made the shadows jump and quiver .
2 `` Good ! ''
3 said Mowgli , staring round slowly .
4 `` I see that ye are dogs .
5 I go from you to my own people -- if they be my own people .
6 The jungle is shut to me , and I must forget your talk and your companionship .
7 But I will be more merciful than ye are .
8 Because I was all but your brother in blood , I promise that when I am a man among men I will not betray ye to men as ye have betrayed me . ''
9 He kicked the fire with his foot , and the sparks flew up .
10 `` There shall be no war between any of us in the Pack .
11 But here is a debt to pay before I go . ''
12 He strode forward to where Shere Khan sat blinking stupidly at the flames , and caught him by the tuft on his chin .
13 Bagheera followed in case of accidents .
14 `` Up , dog ! ''
15 Mowgli cried .
16 `` Up , when a man speaks , or I will set that coat ablaze ! ''
17 Shere Khan 's ears lay flat back on his head , and he shut his eyes , for the blazing branch was very near .
18 `` This cattle-killer said he would kill me in the Council because he had not killed me when I was a cub .
19 Thus and thus , then , do we beat dogs when we are men .
20 Stir a whisker , Lungri , and I ram the Red Flower down thy gullet ! ''
21 He beat Shere Khan over the XXXXX with the branch , and the tiger whimpered and whined in an agony of fear .	head		Flower|case|ears|eyes|foot|head|life|mercy|shoulders|wolf

1 He tied his horse to the fence and looked doubtfully about him .
2 Untrodden snowdrifts were heaped about the front door , so he turned towards the kitchen and walked slowly past the bare lilac trees along the fence .
3 There was no sign of life about the place .
4 It was beginning to snow again , softly and thickly , and the hills and river were hidden behind a misty white veil .
5 He lifted his hand to knock , but before he could do so , the door was flung open and Min herself confronted him on the threshold .
6 She did not now have on the man 's overcoat which she had worn at the store , and her neat , close-fitting home-spun dress revealed to perfection the full , magnificent curves of her figure .
7 Her splendid hair was braided about her head in a glossy coronet , and her dark eyes were ablaze with ill-suppressed anger .
8 Again Telford was overcome by a sense of her wonderful loveliness .
9 Not all the years of bondage to ill-temper and misguided will had been able to blot out the beauty of that proud , dark face .
10 She lifted one large but shapely brown hand and pointed to the gate .
11 `` Go ! ''
12 she said threateningly .
13 `` Mrs. Palmer , '' began Telford , but she silenced him with an imperious gesture .
14 `` I do n't want any of your kind here .
15 I hate all you ministers .
16 Did you come here to lecture me ?
17 I suppose some of the Corner saints set you on me .
18 You 'll never cross my threshold . ''
19 Telford returned her defiant gaze unflinchingly .
20 His dark-blue eyes , magnetic in their power and sweetness , looked gravely , questioningly , into Min 's stormy orbs .
21 Slowly the fire and anger faded out of her XXXXX and her head drooped .	face		door|face|hair|horse|kitchen|ministers|overcoat|power|river|threshold

1 `` We-uns done think of Brer Toad as ugly-lookin ' fo ' so long that we-uns may have overlooked something .
2 Ah don ' reckon Brer Toad can sing , but Ah ` lows that perhaps he thinks he can .
3 What do you-alls say to we-uns going down to the Smiling Pool and finding out what he really is up to ? ''
4 `` The very thing ! ''
5 cried Peter , kicking up his heels .
6 You know Peter is always ready to go anywhere or do anything that will satisfy his curiosity .
7 Jimmy Skunk thought it over for a few minutes , and then he decided that as he had n't anything in particular to do , and as he might find some fat beetles on the way , he would go too .
8 So off they started after Old Mr. Toad , Peter Rabbit in the lead as usual , Unc ' Billy Possum next , grinning as only he can grin , and in the rear Jimmy Skunk , taking his time and keeping a sharp eye out for fat beetles .
9 III THE HUNT FOR OLD MR. TOAD Now , though Old Mr. Toad was hurrying as fast as ever he could and was quite out of breath , he was n't getting along very fast compared with the way Peter Rabbit or Jimmy Skunk or Unc ' Billy Possum could cover the ground .
10 You see he can not make long jumps like his cousin , Grandfather Frog , but only little short hops .
11 So Peter and Jimmy and Unc ' Billy took their time about following him .
12 They stopped to hunt for fat beetles for Jimmy Skunk , and at every little patch of sweet clover for Peter Rabbit to help himself .
13 Once they wasted a lot of time while Unc ' Billy Possum hunted for a nest of Carol the Meadow Lark , on the chance that he would find some fresh eggs there .
14 He did n't find the nest for the very good reason that Carol had n't built one yet .
15 Peter was secretly glad .
16 You know he does n't eat eggs , and he is always sorry for his feathered friends when their eggs are stolen .
17 Half way across the Green Meadows they stopped to play with the Merry Little Breezes , and because it was very pleasant there , they played longer than they realized .
18 When at last they started on again , Old Mr. Toad was out of sight .
19 You see all the time he had kept right on going , hop , hop , hipperty-hop .
20 `` Never mind , '' said Peter , `` we can catch up with him easy enough , he 's such a slow-poke . ''
21 But even a slow-poke who keeps right on doing a thing without wasting any time always gets somewhere sooner or later , very often sooner than those who are naturally quicker , but who waste their XXXXX .	time		cousin|friends|heels|lows|patch|reason|thing|think|time|way

1 Now the story comes back to Red , who came into the hall and showed the King his right arm wanting the hand , and said that now he could see what kind of a man his intended son-in-law was , for he had done this to him without any cause whatever .
2 The King became very angry , and said he would soon find out the truth about it , and if Ring had cut off his hand without good cause he should be hanged ; but if it was otherwise , then Red should die .
3 So the King sent for Ring and asked him for what reason he had done this .
4 Snati , however , had just told Ring what had happened during the night , and in reply he asked the King to go with him and he would show him something .
5 The King went with him to his sleeping-room , and saw lying on the bed a man 's hand holding a sword .
6 ` This hand , ' said Ring , ` came over the partition during the night , and was about to run me through in my bed , if I had not defended myself . '
7 The King answered that in that case he could not blame him for protecting his own life , and that Red was well worthy of death .
8 So Red was hanged , and Ring married the King 's daughter .
9 The first night that they went to bed together Snati asked Ring to allow him to lie at their feet , and this Ring allowed him to do .
10 During the night he heard a howling and outcry beside them , struck a light in a hurry and saw an ugly dog 's skin lying near him , and a beautiful Prince in the bed .
11 Ring instantly took the skin and burned it , and then shook the Prince , who was lying unconscious , until he woke up .
12 The bridegroom then asked his name ; he replied that he was called Ring , and was a King 's son .
13 In his youth he had lost his mother , and in her place his father had married a witch , who had laid a spell on him that he should turn into a dog , and never be released from the spell unless a Prince of the same name as himself allowed him to sleep at his feet the first night after his marriage .
14 He added further , ` As soon as she knew that you were my namesake she tried to get you destroyed , so that you might not free me from the spell .
15 She was the hind that you and your companions chased ; she was the woman that you found in the clearing with the barrel , and the old hag that we just now killed in the cave . '
16 After the feasting was over the two namesakes , along with other men , went to the cliff and brought all the treasure home to the Palace .
17 Then they went to the island and removed all that was valuable from it .
18 Ring gave to his namesake , whom he had freed from the spell , his sister Ingiborg and his father 's kingdom to look after , but he himself stayed with his father-in-law the King , and had half the kingdom while he lived and the whole of it after his death .
19 THE SWINEHERD There was once a poor Prince .
20 He possessed a kingdom which , though small , was yet large enough for him to marry on , and married he wished to be .
21 Now it was certainly a little audacious of him to venture to say to the Emperor 's XXXXX , ` Will you marry me ? '	daughter		Ring|arm|daughter|dog|feet|hall|kind|something|story|youth

1 Next morning the King asked Ring and Red to go and cut down trees for him , and both agreed .
2 Ring got the two axes , and each went his own way ; but when the Prince had got out into the wood Snati took one of the axes and began to hew along with him .
3 In the evening the King came to look over their day 's work , as Red had proposed , and found that Ring 's wood-heap was more than twice as big . '
4 I suspected , ' said the King , ` that Ring was not quite useless ; never have I seen such a day 's work . '
5 Ring was now in far greater esteem with the King than before , and Red was all the more discontented .
6 One day he came to the King and said , ` If Ring is such a mighty man , I think you might ask him to kill the wild oxen in the wood here , and flay them the same day , and bring you the horns and the hides in the evening . '
7 ` Do n't you think that a desperate errand ? '
8 said the King , ` seeing they are so dangerous , and no one has ever yet ventured to go against them ? '
9 Red answered that he had only one life to lose , and it would be interesting to see how brave he was ; besides , the King would have good reason to ennoble him if he overcame them .
10 The King at last allowed himself , though rather unwillingly , to be won over by Red 's persistency , and one day asked Ring to go and kill the oxen that were in the wood for him , and bring their horns and hides to him in the evening .
11 Not knowing how dangerous the oxen were , Ring was quite ready , and went off at once , to the great delight of Red , who was now sure of his death .
12 As soon as Ring came in sight of the oxen they came bellowing to meet him ; one of them was tremendously big , the other rather less .
13 Ring grew terribly afraid .
14 ` How do you like them ? '
15 asked Snati .
16 ` Not well at all , ' said the Prince .
17 ` We can do nothing else , ' said Snati , ` than attack them , if it is to go well ; you will go against the little one , and I shall take the other . '
18 With this Snati leapt at the big one , and was not long in bringing him down .
19 Meanwhile the Prince went against the other with fear and trembling , and by the time Snati came to help him the ox had nearly got him under , but Snati was not slow in helping his master to kill it .
20 Each of them then began to flay their own ox , but Ring was only half through by the time Snati had finished his .
21 In the evening , after they had finished this task , the Prince thought himself unfit to carry all the horns and both the XXXXX , so Snati told him to lay them all on his back until they got to the Palace gate .	hides		death|errand|esteem|half|hides|horns|life|morning|oxen|time

1 But they were not able to remain together , for the water tore them apart , and when the flood was over they both resumed their own shapes again , but the hunter and the hunter 's wife found themselves each in a strange country , and neither knew what had become of the other .
2 The hunter determined to become a shepherd , and his wife too became a shepherdess .
3 So they herded their sheep for many years in solitude and sadness .
4 Now it happened once that the shepherd came to the country where the shepherdess lived .
5 The neighbourhood pleased him , and he saw that the pasture was rich and suitable for his flocks .
6 So he brought his sheep there , and herded them as before .
7 The shepherd and shepherdess became great friends , but they did not recognise each other in the least .
8 But one evening when the moon was full they sat together watching their flocks , and the shepherd played upon his flute .
9 Then the shepherdess thought of that evening when she had sat at the full moon by the mill-pond and had played on the golden flute ; the recollection was too much for her , and she burst into tears .
10 The shepherd asked her why she was crying , and left her no peace till she told him all her story .
11 Then the scales fell from the shepherd 's eyes , and he recognised his wife , and she him .
12 So they returned joyfully to their own home , and lived in peace and happiness ever after .
13 THE GLASS MOUNTAIN -LRB- 16 -RRB- -LRB- 16 -RRB- From the Polish .
14 Kletke .
15 Once upon a time there was a Glass Mountain at the top of which stood a castle made of pure gold , and in front of the castle there grew an apple-tree on which there were golden apples .
16 Anyone who picked an apple gained admittance into the golden castle , and there in a silver room sat an enchanted Princess of surpassing fairness and beauty .
17 She was as rich too as she was beautiful , for the cellars of the castle were full of precious stones , and great chests of the finest gold stood round the walls of all the rooms .
18 Many knights had come from afar to try their luck , but it was in vain they attempted to climb the mountain .
19 In spite of having their horses shod with sharp nails , no one managed to get more than half-way up , and then they all fell back right down to the bottom of the steep slippery hill .
20 Sometimes they broke an arm , sometimes a leg , and many a brave man had broken his neck even .
21 The beautiful Princess sat at her window and watched the bold XXXXX trying to reach her on their splendid horses .	knights		Anyone|bottom|castle|hill|horses|knights|peace|sadness|thought|time

1 ` You are trying to soothe me by vain promises , ' answered the King .
2 ` Did I not see her caught up into the air , in spite of cries which would have softened the heart of any one but the barbarian who has robbed me of her ?
3 The unfortunate girl is pining away in some unknown land , where perhaps no foot of man has ever trod , and I shall see her no more .
4 But go , generous stranger ; bring back Rosalie if you can , and live happy with her ever after in this country , of which I now declare you heir . '
5 Although the stranger 's name and rank were unknown to Rosalie 's father , he was really the son of the King of the Golden Isle , which had for capital a city that extended from one sea to another .
6 The walls , washed by the quiet waters , were covered with gold , which made one think of the yellow sands .
7 Above them was a rampart of orange and lemon trees , and all the streets were paved with gold .
8 The King of this beautiful island had one son , for whom a life of adventure had been foretold at his birth .
9 This so frightened his father and mother that in order to comfort them a Fairy , who happened to be present at the time , produced a little pebble which she told them to keep for the Prince till he grew up , as by putting it in his mouth he would become invisible , as long as he did not try to speak , for if he did the stone would lose all its virtue .
10 In this way the good fairy hoped that the Prince would be protected against all dangers .
11 No sooner did the Prince begin to grow out of boyhood than he longed to see if the other countries of the world were as splendid as the one in which he lived .
12 So , under pretence of visiting some small islands that belonged to his father , he set out .
13 But a frightful storm drove his ship on to unknown shores , where most of his followers were put to death by the savages , and the Prince himself only managed to escape by making use of his magic pebble .
14 By this means he passed through the midst of them unseen , and wandered on till he reached the coast , where he re-embarked on board his ship .
15 The first land he sighted was the Island of Roses , and he went at once to the court of the King , Rosalie 's father .
16 The moment his eyes beheld the Princess , he fell in love with her like everyone else .
17 He had already spent several months in this condition when the Prince of the Air whirled her away , to the grief and despair of every man on the island .
18 But sad though everybody was , the Prince of the Golden Isle was perfectly inconsolable , and he passed both days and nights in bemoaning his loss .
19 ` Alas ! '
20 he cried ; ` shall I never see my lovely Princess again ? '
21 Who knows where she may be , and what XXXXX may have her in his keeping ?	fairy		everyone|fairy|followers|grief|heart|islands|name|promises|sea|spite

1 It was well for Polly that she was too big to have her ears boxed .
2 Even so , it might not have saved her if they had been anywhere else than in church .
3 Meanwhile the men who were sitting in the choir -- three basses and two tenors -- were beginning to dimly suspect that there was something amiss here too .
4 Where were the sopranos and the altos ?
5 Myra Wilson and Alethea Craig and several other members of the choir were sitting down in their pews with perfectly unconscious faces .
6 Myra was looking out of the window into the tangled sunlight and shadow of the great maples .
7 Alethea Craig was reading her Bible .
8 Presently Frances Spenslow came in .
9 Frances was organist , but today , instead of walking up to the platform , she slipped demurely into her father 's pew at one side of the pulpit .
10 Eben Craig , who was the Putney singing master and felt himself responsible for the choir , fidgeted uneasily .
11 He tried to catch Frances 's eye , but she was absorbed in reading the mission report she had found in the rack , and Eben was finally forced to tiptoe down to the Spenslow pew and whisper , `` Miss Spenslow , the minister is waiting for the doxology .
12 Are n't you going to take the organ ? ''
13 Frances looked up calmly .
14 Her clear , placid voice was audible not only to those in the nearby pews , but to the minister .
15 `` No , Mr. Craig .
16 You know if a woman is n't fit to speak in the church she ca n't be fit to sing in it either . ''
17 Eben Craig looked exceedingly foolish .
18 He tiptoed gingerly back to his place .
19 The minister , with an unusual flush on his thin , ascetic face , rose suddenly and gave out the opening hymn .
20 Nobody who heard the singing in Putney church that day ever forgot it .
21 Untrained XXXXX and tenors , unrelieved by a single female voice , are not inspiring .	basses		basses|choir|eye|maples|organ|organist|pews|side|sunlight|tenors

1 He listened to all he heard , and determined that he too would try his luck .
2 But first he went to the forest and caught a lynx , and cutting off the creature 's sharp claws , he fastened them on to his own hands and feet .
3 Armed with these weapons he boldly started up the Glass Mountain .
4 The sun was nearly going down , and the youth had not got more than half-way up .
5 He could hardly draw breath he was so worn out , and his mouth was parched by thirst .
6 A huge black cloud passed over his head , but in vain did he beg and beseech her to let a drop of water fall on him .
7 He opened his mouth , but the black cloud sailed past and not as much as a drop of dew moistened his dry lips .
8 His feet were torn and bleeding , and he could only hold on now with his hands .
9 Evening closed in , and he strained his eyes to see if he could behold the top of the mountain .
10 Then he gazed beneath him , and what a sight met his eyes !
11 A yawning abyss , with certain and terrible death at the bottom , reeking with half-decayed bodies of horses and riders !
12 And this had been the end of all the other brave men who like himself had attempted the ascent .
13 It was almost pitch dark now , and only the stars lit up the Glass Mountain .
14 The poor boy still clung on as if glued to the glass by his blood-stained hands .
15 He made no struggle to get higher , for all his strength had left him , and seeing no hope he calmly awaited death .
16 Then all of a sudden he fell into a deep sleep , and forgetful of his dangerous position , he slumbered sweetly .
17 But all the same , although he slept , he had stuck his sharp claws so firmly into the glass that he was quite safe not to fall .
18 Now the golden apple-tree was guarded by the eagle which had overthrown the golden knight and his horse .
19 Every night it flew round the Glass Mountain keeping a careful look-out , and no sooner had the moon emerged from the clouds than the bird rose up from the apple-tree , and circling round in the air , caught sight of the sleeping youth .
20 Greedy for carrion , and sure that this must be a fresh corpse , the bird swooped down upon the boy .
21 But he was awake now , and perceiving the XXXXX , he determined by its help to save himself .	eagle		bleeding|breath|eagle|forest|forgetful|head|mountain|sleep|weapons|youth

1 Down , down , down .
2 There was nothing else to do , so Alice soon began talking again .
3 ` Dinah 'll miss me very much to-night , I should think ! '
4 -LRB- Dinah was the cat . -RRB- '
5 I hope they 'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time .
6 Dinah my dear !
7 I wish you were down here with me !
8 There are no mice in the air , I 'm afraid , but you might catch a bat , and that 's very like a mouse , you know .
9 But do cats eat bats , I wonder ? '
10 And here Alice began to get rather sleepy , and went on saying to herself , in a dreamy sort of way , ` Do cats eat bats ?
11 Do cats eat bats ? '
12 and sometimes , ` Do bats eat cats ? '
13 for , you see , as she could n't answer either question , it did n't much matter which way she put it .
14 She felt that she was dozing off , and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah , and saying to her very earnestly , ` Now , Dinah , tell me the truth : did you ever eat a bat ? '
15 when suddenly , thump !
16 thump !
17 down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves , and the fall was over .
18 Alice was not a bit hurt , and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment : she looked up , but it was all dark overhead ; before her was another long passage , and the White Rabbit was still in sight , hurrying down it .
19 There was not a moment to be lost : away went Alice like the wind , and was just in time to hear it say , as it turned a corner , ` Oh my ears and whiskers , how late it 's getting ! '
20 She was close behind it when she turned the corner , but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen : she found herself in a long , low hall , which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof .
21 There were doors all round the hall , but they were all locked ; and when Alice had been all the XXXXX down one side and up the other , trying every door , she walked sadly down the middle , wondering how she was ever to get out again .	way		Rabbit|air|ears|matter|mice|nothing|question|thump|way|whiskers

1 I wo n't go , ' said he , ` unless I get the gold cloak . '
2 ` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' said the hag .
3 ` Die , then , ' said the son .
4 ` Well , then , take it , ' said the old hag , ` and be off with you , but you must make haste with the water . '
5 He put on the cloak , and when he came outside it shone so bright that he could see to go with it .
6 On reaching the river he went to take a drink like his sister , but at that moment Ring and Snati sprang upon him , took the cloak from him , and threw him into the river .
7 The old hag could stand the thirst no longer , and asked her husband to go for a drink for her ; the brats , she said , were of course running about and playing themselves , just as she had expected they would , little wretches that they were . '
8 I wo n't go , ' said the old troll , ` unless you lend me the gold chess-board . '
9 ` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' said the hag . '
10 I think you may just as well do that , ' said he , ` since you wo n't grant me such a little favour . '
11 ` Take it , then , you utter disgrace ! '
12 said the old hag , ` since you are just like these two brats . '
13 The old troll now went out with the gold chess-board , and down to the river , and was about to take a drink , when Ring and Snati came upon him , took the chess-board from him , and threw him into the river .
14 Before they had got back again , however , and up on top of the cave , they saw the poor old fellow 's ghost come marching up from the river .
15 Snati immediately sprang upon him , and Ring assisted in the attack , and after a hard struggle they mastered him a second time .
16 When they got back again to the window they saw that the old hag was moving towards the door .
17 ` Now we must go in at once , ' said Snati , ` and try to master her there , for if she once gets out we shall have no chance with her .
18 She is the worst witch that ever lived , and no iron can cut her .
19 One of us must pour boiling porridge out of the pot on her , and the other punch her with red-hot iron . '
20 In they went then , and no sooner did the hag see them than she said , ` So you have come , Prince Ring ; you must have seen to my husband and children . '
21 Snati saw that she was about to attack them , and sprang at her with a red-hot iron from the fire , while XXXXX kept pouring boiling porridge on her without stopping , and in this way they at last got her killed .	Ring		Ring|chance|children|cloak|disgrace|door|favour|gold|struggle|thirst

1 `` At least let me know if Miss Fiske rampages , '' he called after me as I fled .
2 But Aunt Martha was not awake -- and I have been to the shore three afternoons since then .
3 I was there today , and I 'm going tomorrow for a boat sail with Mr. Shelmardine and the Allardyces .
4 But I am afraid the former will do something rash soon .
5 This afternoon he said : `` I do n't think I can stand this much longer . ''
6 `` Stand what ? ''
7 I asked .
8 `` You know very well , '' he answered recklessly .
9 `` Meeting you in this clandestine manner , and thereby causing that poor little conscience of yours such misery .
10 If your aunt were not so -- unreasonable , I should never have stooped to it . ''
11 `` It is all my fault , '' I said contritely .
12 `` Well , I hardly meant that , '' he said grimly .
13 `` But had n't I better go frankly to your aunt and lay the whole case before her ? ''
14 `` You would never see me again if you did that , '' I said hastily -- and then wished I had n't .
15 `` That is the worst threat you could make , '' he said .
16 July Twenty-fifth .
17 It is all over , and I am the most miserable girl in the world .
18 Of course this means that Aunt Martha has discovered everything and the deserved punishment of my sins has overtaken me .
19 I slipped away again this afternoon and went for that boat sail .
20 We had a lovely time but were rather late getting in , and I hurried home with many misgivings .
21 XXXXX Martha met me at the door .	Aunt		Aunt|Miss|course|everything|fault|home|punishment|sins|time|tomorrow

1 The fairy told Serpentine that she was quite satisfied with her conduct , and made herself very agreeable to Saphir , whom she presented to the lady she had brought with her , explaining that the lady was no other than his Aunt Aglantine , widow of Diamantino .
2 Then they all fell into each other 's arms , till the fairy mounted her chariot , placed Aglantine by her side , and Saphir and Serpentine on the front seat .
3 She also sent a message to the Prince 's attendants that they might travel slowly back to the Court of King Peridor , and that the beautiful bird had really been found .
4 This matter being comfortably arranged , she started off her chariot .
5 But in spite of the swiftness with which they flew through the air , the time passed even quicker for Saphir and Serpentine , who had so much to think about .
6 They were still quite confused with the pleasure of seeing each other , when the chariot arrived at King Peridor 's palace .
7 He had had himself carried to a room on the roof , where his nurses thought that he would die at any moment .
8 Directly the chariot drew within sight of the castle the beautiful bird took flight , and , making straight for the dying King , at once cured him of his sickness .
9 Then she resumed her natural shape , and he found that the bird was no other than the Queen Constance , whom he had long believed to be dead .
10 Peridor was rejoiced to embrace his wife and his son once more , and with the help of the fairies began to make preparations for the marriage of Saphir and Serpentine , who turned out to be the daughter of Aglantine and Diamantino , and as much a princess as he was a prince .
11 The people of the kingdom were delighted , and everybody lived happy and contented to the end of their lives .
12 THE SEVEN-HEADED SERPENT -LRB- 9 -RRB- -LRB- 9 -RRB- ` Die Siebenkopfige Schlange , ' from Schmidt 's Griechische Mahrchen .
13 Once upon a time there was a king who determined to take a long voyage .
14 He assembled his fleet and all the seamen , and set out .
15 They went straight on night and day , until they came to an island which was covered with large trees , and under every tree lay a lion .
16 As soon as the King had landed his men , the lions all rose up together and tried to devour them .
17 After a long battle they managed to overcome the wild beasts , but the greater number of the men were killed .
18 Those who remained alive now went on through the forest and found on the other side of it a beautiful garden , in which all the plants of the world flourished together .
19 There were also in the garden three springs : the first flowed with silver , the second with gold , and the third with pearls .
20 The men unbuckled their knapsacks and filled them with those precious things .
21 In the middle of the garden they found a large lake , and when they reached the edge of it the Lake began to speak , and said to them , ` What XXXXX are you , and what brings you here ?	men		fleet|lady|men|plants|pleasure|side|spite|swiftness|time|voyage

1 He collected a heap of gold , but at last he thought to himself , ` What good is all my gold to me if I stay at home ?
2 I will travel and look a bit about me in the world . '
3 So he took leave of his parents , slung his hunting knapsack and his gun round him , and journeyed into the world .
4 It happened that one day he went through a thick wood , and when he came to the end of it there lay in the plain before him a large castle .
5 At one of the windows in it stood an old woman with a most beautiful maiden by her side , looking out .
6 But the old woman was a witch , and she said to the girl , ` There comes one out of the wood who has a wonderful treasure in his body which we must manage to possess ourselves of , darling daughter ; we have more right to it than he .
7 He has a bird 's heart in him , and so every morning there lies a gold piece under his pillow . '
8 She told her how they could get hold of it , and how she was to coax it from him , and at last threatened her angrily , saying , ` And if you do not obey me , you shall repent it ! '
9 When the Hunter came nearer he saw the maiden , and said to himself , ' I have travelled so far now that I will rest , and turn into this beautiful castle ; money I have in plenty . '
10 But the real reason was that he had caught sight of the lovely face .
11 He went into the house , and was kindly received and hospitably entertained .
12 It was not long before he was so much in love with the witch-maiden that he thought of nothing else , and only looked in her eyes , and whatever she wanted , that he gladly did .
13 Then the old witch said , ` Now we must have the bird-heart ; he will not feel when it is gone . '
14 She prepared a drink , and when it was ready she poured it in a goblet and gave it to the maiden , who had to hand it to the hunter .
15 ` Drink to me now , my dearest , ' she said .
16 Then he took the goblet , and when he had swallowed the drink the bird-heart came out of his mouth .
17 The maiden had to get hold of it secretly and then swallow it herself , for the old witch wanted to have it .
18 Thenceforward he found no more gold under his pillow , and it lay under the maiden 's ; but he was so much in love and so much bewitched that he thought of nothing except spending all his time with the maiden .
19 Then the old witch said , ` We have the bird-heart , but we must also get the wishing-cloak from him . '
20 The maiden answered , ` We will leave him that ; he has already lost his wealth ! '
21 The old witch grew angry , and said , ` Such a cloak is a wonderful thing , it is seldom to be had in the XXXXX , and have it I must and will . '	world		bird|bit|body|eyes|girl|mouth|pillow|plain|wealth|world

1 To be sure , Charlotta 's intentions were always good .
2 But Miss Corona was not thinking about Charlotta this morning , and she felt so strong a distaste for her lonely , purposeless life that she was in no haste to go forth to meet another day of it .
3 Miss Corona felt just the least little bit tired of living , although she feared it was very wicked of her to feel so .
4 She lay there listlessly for half an hour longer , looking through a mist of tears at the portrait of her stern old father hanging on the wall at the foot of the bed , and thinking over the Quarrel .
5 It had happened thirty years ago , when Miss Corona had been a girl of twenty , living alone with her father at the old Gordon homestead on the hill , with the big black spruce grove behind it on the north and far-reaching slopes of green fields before it on the south .
6 Down in the little northern valley below the spruce grove lived her uncle , Alexis Gordon .
7 His son , Meredith , had seemed to Corona as her own brother .
8 The mothers of both were dead ; neither had any other brother or sister .
9 The two children had grown up together , playmates and devoted friends .
10 There had never been any sentiment or lovemaking between them to mar a perfect comradeship .
11 They were only the best of friends , whatever plans the fathers might have cherished for the union of their estates and children , putting the property consideration first , as the Gordons were always prone to do .
12 But , if Roderick and Alexis Gordon had any such plans , all went by the board when they quarreled .
13 Corona shivered yet over the bitterness of that time .
14 The Gordons never did anything half-heartedly .
15 The strife between the two brothers was determined and irreconcilable .
16 Corona 's father forbade her to speak to her uncle and cousin or to hold any communication with them .
17 Corona wept and obeyed him .
18 She had always obeyed her father ; it had never entered into her mind to do anything else .
19 Meredith had resented her attitude hotly , and from that day they had never spoken or met , while the years came and went , each making a little wider and more hopeless the gulf of coldness and anger and distrust .
20 Ten years later Roderick Gordon died , and in five months Alexis Gordon followed him to the grave .
21 The two XXXXX who had hated each other so unyieldingly in life slept very peaceably side by side in the old Gordon plot of the country graveyard , but their rancour still served to embitter the lives of their descendants .	brothers		brothers|communication|comradeship|homestead|mothers|plans|playmates|son|strife|years

1 Only the children had no fear , and reached the other side in safety .
2 Still , though the chief and the young girl quailed in terror at these horrible sights and sounds , no harm came to them , for their lives had been free from evil , and the Master of Life had said that no evil should happen unto them .
3 So they reached unhurt the shore of the Happy Island , and wandered through the flowery fields and by the banks of rushing streams , and they knew not hunger nor thirst ; neither cold nor heat .
4 The air fed them and the sun warmed them , and they forgot the dead , for they saw no graves , and the young man 's thoughts turned not to wars , neither to the hunting of animals .
5 And gladly would these two have walked thus for ever , but in the murmur of the wind he heard the Master of Life saying to him , ` Return whither you came , for I have work for you to do , and your people need you , and for many years you shall rule over them .
6 At the gate my messenger awaits you , and you shall take again your body which you left behind , and he will show you what you are to do .
7 Listen to him , and have patience , and in time to come you shall rejoin her whom you must now leave , for she is accepted , and will remain ever young and beautiful , as when I called her hence from the Land of Snows . '
8 THE WHITE DUCK Once upon a time a great and powerful King married a lovely Princess .
9 No couple were ever so happy ; but before their honeymoon was over they were forced to part , for the King had to go on a warlike expedition to a far country , and leave his young wife alone at home .
10 Bitter were the tears she shed , while her husband sought in vain to soothe her with words of comfort and counsel , warning her , above all things , never to leave the castle , to hold no intercourse with strangers , to beware of evil counsellors , and especially to be on her guard against strange women .
11 And the Queen promised faithfully to obey her royal lord and master in these four matters .
12 So when the King set out on his expedition she shut herself up with her ladies in her own apartments , and spent her time in spinning and weaving , and in thinking of her royal husband .
13 Often she was very sad and lonely , and it happened that one day while she was seated at the window , letting salt tears drop on her work , an old woman , a kind , homely-looking old body , stepped up to the window , and , leaning upon her crutch , addressed the Queen in friendly , flattering tones , saying : ` Why are you sad and cast down , fair Queen ?
14 You should not mope all day in your rooms , but should come out into the green garden , and hear the birds sing with joy among the trees , and see the butterflies fluttering above the flowers , and hear the bees and insects hum , and watch the sunbeams chase the dew-drops through the rose-leaves and in the lily-cups .
15 All the brightness outside would help to drive away your cares , O Queen . '
16 For long the Queen resisted her coaxing words , remembering the promise she had given the King , her husband ; but at last she thought to herself : After all , what harm would it do if I were to go into the garden for a short time and enjoy myself among the trees and flowers , and the singing birds and fluttering butterflies and humming insects , and look at the dew-drops hiding from the sunbeams in the hearts of the roses and lilies , and wander about in the sunshine , instead of remaining all day in this room ?
17 For she had no idea that the kind-looking old woman leaning on her crutch was in reality a wicked witch , who envied the Queen her good fortune , and was determined to ruin her .
18 And so , in all ignorance , the Queen followed her out into the garden and listened to her smooth , flattering words .
19 Now , in the middle of the garden there was a pond of water , clear as crystal , and the old woman said to the Queen : ` The day is so warm , and the sun 's rays so scorching , that the water in the pond looks very cool and inviting .
20 Would you not like to bathe in it , fair Queen ? '
21 ` No , I think not , ' answered the Queen ; but the next moment she regretted her XXXXX , and thought to herself : Why should n't I bathe in that cool , fresh water ?	words		garden|graves|home|husband|idea|shore|tears|thoughts|time|words

1 said Little Klaus as he drove his own home .
2 PRINCE RING -LRB- 30 -RRB- -LRB- 30 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
3 Once upon a time there was a King and his Queen in their kingdom .
4 They had one daughter , who was called Ingiborg , and one son , whose name was Ring .
5 He was less fond of adventures than men of rank usually were in those days , and was not famous for strength or feats of arms .
6 When he was twelve years old , one fine winter day he rode into the forest along with his men to enjoy himself .
7 They went on a long way , until they caught sight of a hind with a gold ring on its horns .
8 The Prince was eager to catch it , if possible , so they gave chase and rode on without stopping until all the horses began to founder beneath them .
9 At last the Prince 's horse gave way too , and then there came over them a darkness so black that they could no longer see the hind .
10 By this time they were far away from any house , and thought it was high time to be making their way home again , but they found they had got lost now .
11 At first they all kept together , but soon each began to think that he knew the right way best ; so they separated , and all went in different directions .
12 The Prince , too , had got lost like the rest , and wandered on for a time until he came to a little clearing in the forest not far from the sea , where he saw a woman sitting on a chair and a big barrel standing beside her .
13 The Prince went up to her and saluted her politely , and she received him very graciously .
14 He looked down into the barrel then , and saw lying at the bottom an unusually beautiful gold ring , which pleased him so much that he could not take his eyes off it .
15 The woman saw this , and said that he might have it if he would take the trouble to get it ; for which the Prince thanked her , and said it was at least worth trying .
16 So he leaned over into the barrel , which did not seem very deep , and thought he would easily reach the ring ; but the more he stretched down after it the deeper grew the barrel .
17 As he was thus bending down into it the woman suddenly rose up and pushed him in head first , saying that now he could take up his quarters there .
18 Then she fixed the top on the barrel and threw it out into the sea .
19 The Prince thought himself in a bad plight now , as he felt the barrel floating out from the land and tossing about on the waves .
20 How many days he spent thus he could not tell , but at last he felt that the barrel was knocking against rocks , at which he was a little cheered , thinking it was probably land and not merely a reef in the sea .
21 Being something of a swimmer , he at last made up his mind to kick the XXXXX out of the barrel , and having done so he was able to get on shore , for the rocks by the sea were smooth and level ; but overhead there were high cliffs .	bottom		Ring|bottom|directions|forest|home|house|name|sea|son|winter

1 The man said , ' I do n't know what is turning those windmills ; there is not the slightest breeze blowing . '
2 So he walked on with his servants , and when they had gone two miles they saw a man sitting on a tree , holding one of his nostrils and blowing out of the other .
3 ` Fellow , what are you puffing at up there ? '
4 asked the man .
5 He replied , ` Two miles from this place are standing seven windmills ; see , I am blowing to drive them round . '
6 ` Oh , go with me , ' said the man ; ` if we four are together we shall easily travel through the wide world . '
7 So the blower got down and went with him , and after a time they saw a man who was standing on one leg , and had unstrapped the other and laid it near him .
8 Then said the master , ` You have made yourself very comfortable to rest ! ' '
9 I am a runner , ' answered he ; ` and so that I shall not go too quickly , I have unstrapped one leg ; when I run with two legs , I go faster than a bird flies . '
10 ` Oh , go with me ; if we five are together , we shall easily travel through the wide world . '
11 So he went with him , and , not long afterwards , they met a man who wore a little hat , but he had it slouched over one ear .
12 ` Manners , manners ! '
13 said the master to him ; ` do n't hang your hat over one ear ; you look like a madman ! ' '
14 I dare not , ' said the other , ` for if I were to put my hat on straight , there would come such a frost that the very birds in the sky would freeze and fall dead on the earth . '
15 ` Oh , go with me , ' said the master ; ` if we six are together , we shall easily travel through the wide world .
16 Now the Six came to a town in which the King had proclaimed that whoever should run with his daughter in a race , and win , should become her husband ; but if he lost , he must lose his head .
17 This was reported to the man who declared he would compete , ` but , ' he said , ' I shall let my servant run for me . '
18 The King replied , ` Then both your heads must be staked , and your head and his must be guaranteed for the winner . '
19 When this was agreed upon and settled , the man strapped on the runner 's other leg , saying to him , ` Now be nimble , and see that we win ! '
20 It was arranged that whoever should first bring water out of a stream a long way off , should be the victor .
21 Then the runner got a pitcher , and the King 's XXXXX another , and they began to run at the same time ; but in a moment , when the King 's daughter was only just a little way off , no spectator could see the runner , and it seemed as if the wind had whistled past .	daughter		Fellow|daughter|leg|run|servants|sky|town|victor|way|winner

1 But they did not yet know it by heart ; it was much too difficult .
2 And the bandmaster praised the bird tremendously ; yes , he assured them it was better than a real nightingale , not only because of its beautiful plumage and diamonds , but inside as well .
3 ` For see , my Lords and Ladies and your Imperial Majesty , with the real Nightingale one can never tell what will come out , but all is known about the artificial bird !
4 You can explain it , you can open it and show people where the waltzes lie , how they go , and how one follows the other ! '
5 ` That 's just what we think ! '
6 said everyone ; and the bandmaster received permission to show the bird to the people the next Sunday .
7 They should hear it sing , commanded the Emperor .
8 And they heard it , and they were as pleased as if they had been intoxicated with tea , after the Chinese fashion , and they all said ` Oh ! '
9 and held up their forefingers and nodded time .
10 But the poor fishermen who had heard the real Nightingale said : ` This one sings well enough , the tunes glide out ; but there is something wanting -- I do n't know what ! '
11 The real Nightingale was banished from the kingdom .
12 The artificial bird was put on silken cushions by the Emperor 's bed , all the presents which it received , gold and precious stones , lay round it , and it was given the title of Imperial Night-singer , First from the left .
13 For the Emperor counted that side as the more distinguished , being the side on which the heart is ; the Emperor 's heart is also on the left .
14 And the bandmaster wrote a work of twenty-five volumes about the artificial bird .
15 It was so learned , long , and so full of the hardest Chinese words that everyone said they had read it and understood it ; for once they had been very stupid about a book , and had been trampled under foot in consequence .
16 So a whole year passed .
17 The Emperor , the Court , and all the Chinese knew every note of the artificial bird 's song by heart .
18 But they liked it all the better for this ; they could even sing with it , and they did .
19 The street boys sang ` Tra-la-la-la-la , and the Emperor sang too sometimes .
20 It was indeed delightful .
21 But one evening , when the artificial bird was singing its best , and the Emperor lay in bed listening to it , XXXXX in the bird went crack .	something		Ladies|Sunday|everyone|forefingers|kingdom|people|side|something|title|tunes

1 Under the table at his feet he had laid the sack with the horse-skin in it , for , as we know , he was going to the town to sell it .
2 The porridge did not taste good to him , so he trod upon his sack , and the dry skin in the sack squeaked loudly .
3 ` Hush ! '
4 said Little Klaus to his sack , at the same time treading on it again so that it squeaked even louder than before .
5 ` Hallo !
6 what have you got in your sack ? '
7 asked the farmer .
8 ` Oh , it is a wizard ! '
9 said Little Klaus .
10 ` He says we should not eat porridge , for he has conjured the whole oven full of roast meats and fish and cakes . '
11 ` Goodness me ! '
12 said the farmer ; and opening the oven he saw all the delicious , tempting dishes his wife had hidden there , but which he now believed the wizard in the sack had conjured up for them .
13 The wife could say nothing , but she put the food at once on the table , and they ate the fish , the roast meat , and the cakes .
14 Little Klaus now trod again on his sack , so that the skin squeaked .
15 ` What does he say now ? '
16 asked the farmer .
17 ` He says , ' replied Little Klans , ` that he has also conjured up for us three bottles of wine ; they are standing in the corner by the oven ! '
18 The wife had to fetch the wine which she had hidden , and the farmer drank and grew very merry .
19 He would very much like to have had such a wizard as Little Klaus had in the sack .
20 ` Can he conjure up the Devil ? '
21 asked the XXXXX . '	farmer		Goodness|dishes|farmer|food|nothing|oven|sack|table|town|wine

1 ` See that you do it well , then , ' growled the witch .
2 ` If I am pleased with you , I 'll reward you ; but if I am not , I 'll put you in a pan and fry you in the oven -- that 's what I 'll do with you , my pretty dears !
3 You have been gently reared , but you 'll find my work hard enough .
4 See if you do n't . '
5 And , so saying , she set the girl down to spin yarn , and she gave the boy a sieve in which to carry water from the well , and she herself went out into the wood .
6 Now , as the girl was sitting at her distaff , weeping bitterly because she could not spin , she heard the sound of hundreds of little feet , and from every hole and corner in the hut mice came pattering along the floor , squeaking and saying : ` Little girl , why are your eyes so red ?
7 If you want help , then give us some bread . '
8 And the girl gave them the bread that her grandmother had given her .
9 Then the mice told her that the witch had a cat , and the cat was very fond of ham ; if she would give the cat her ham , it would show her the way out of the wood , and in the meantime they would spin the yarn for her .
10 So the girl set out to look for the cat , and , as she was hunting about , she met her brother , in great trouble because he could not carry water from the well in a sieve , as it came pouring out as fast as he put it in .
11 And as she was trying to comfort him they heard a rustling of wings , and a flight of wrens alighted on the ground beside them .
12 And the wrens said : ` Give us some crumbs , then you need not grieve .
13 For you 'll find that water will stay in the sieve . '
14 Then the twins crumbled their bread on the ground , and the wrens pecked it , and chirruped and chirped .
15 And when they had eaten the last crumb they told the boy to fill up the holes of the sieve with clay , and then to draw water from the well .
16 So he did what they said , and carried the sieve full of water into the hut without spilling a drop .
17 When they entered the hut the cat was curled up on the floor .
18 So they stroked her , and fed her with ham , and said to her : ` Pussy , grey pussy , tell us how we are to get away from the witch ? '
19 Then the cat thanked them for the ham , and gave them a pocket-handkerchief and a comb , and told them that when the witch pursued them , as she certainly would , all they had to do was to throw the handkerchief on the ground and run as fast as they could .
20 As soon as the handkerchief touched the ground a deep , broad river would spring up , which would hinder the witch 's progress .
21 If she managed to get across it , they must throw the comb behind them and run for their lives , for where the comb fell a dense forest would start up , which would delay the XXXXX so long that they would be able to get safely away .	witch		bread|floor|fry|ham|help|hunting|mice|trouble|way|witch

1 Half-dead with fright , and trembling in every limb , the poor children lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dared not close their eyes , and scarcely ventured to breathe .
2 In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips .
3 Then the witch left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood .
4 As soon as she had gone out of sight the children took the comb and the handkerchief , and , taking one another by the hand , they started and ran , and ran , and ran .
5 And first they met the watch-dog , who was going to leap on them and tear them to pieces ; but they threw the remains of their bread to him , and he ate them and wagged his tail .
6 Then they were hindered by the birch-trees , whose branches almost put their eyes out .
7 But the little sister tied the twigs together with a piece of ribbon , and they got past safely , and , after running through the wood , came out on to the open fields .
8 In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen and tangling the threads as it wove .
9 And the witch returned to see how the children were getting on ; and she crept up to the window , and whispered : ` Are you weaving , my little dear ? '
10 ` Yes , granny , I am weaving , ' answered the cat .
11 When the witch saw that the children had escaped her , she was furious , and , hitting the cat with a porringer , she said : ` Why did you let the children leave the hut ?
12 Why did you not scratch their eyes out ? '
13 But the cat curled up its tail and put its back up , and answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never even threw me a bone , but the dear children gave me their own piece of ham . '
14 Then the witch was furious with the watch-dog and with the birch-trees , because they had let the children pass .
15 But the dog answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never gave me so much as a hard crust , but the dear children gave me their own loaf of bread . '
16 And the birch rustled its leaves , and said : ' I have served you longer than I can say , and you never tied a bit of twine even round my branches ; and the dear children bound them up with their brightest ribbons . '
17 So the witch saw there was no help to be got from her old servants , and that the best thing she could do was to mount on her broom and set off in pursuit of the children .
18 And as the children ran they heard the sound of the broom sweeping the ground close behind them , so instantly they threw the handkerchief down over their shoulder , and in a moment a deep , broad river flowed behind them .
19 When the witch came up to it , it took her a long time before she found a place which she could ford over on her broom-stick ; but at last she got across , and continued the chase faster than before .
20 And as the children ran they heard a sound , and the little sister put her ear to the ground , and heard the broom sweeping the earth close behind them ; so , quick as thought , she threw the comb down on the ground , and in an instant , as the cat had said , a dense forest sprung up , in which the roots and branches were so closely intertwined , that it was impossible to force a way through it .
21 So when the XXXXX came up to it on her broom she found that there was nothing for it but to turn round and go back to her hut .	witch		eyes|forest|fright|girl|help|ribbons|thought|time|twigs|witch

1 I think I could , if I only know how to begin . '
2 For , you see , so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately , that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible .
3 There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door , so she went back to the table , half hoping she might find another key on it , or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes : this time she found a little bottle on it , -LRB- ` which certainly was not here before , ' said Alice , -RRB- and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label , with the words ` DRINK ME ' beautifully printed on it in large letters .
4 It was all very well to say ` Drink me , ' but the wise little Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry .
5 ` No , I 'll look first , ' she said , ` and see whether it 's marked `` poison '' or not ' ; for she had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt , and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things , all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them : such as , that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long ; and that if you cut your finger VERY deeply with a knife , it usually bleeds ; and she had never forgotten that , if you drink much from a bottle marked ` poison , ' it is almost certain to disagree with you , sooner or later .
6 However , this bottle was NOT marked ` poison , ' so Alice ventured to taste it , and finding it very nice , -LRB- it had , in fact , a sort of mixed flavour of cherry-tart , custard , pine-apple , roast turkey , toffee , and hot buttered toast , -RRB- she very soon finished it off .
7 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ` What a curious feeling ! '
8 said Alice ; ' I must be shutting up like a telescope . '
9 And so it was indeed : she was now only ten inches high , and her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden .
10 First , however , she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further : she felt a little nervous about this ; ` for it might end , you know , ' said Alice to herself , ` in my going out altogether , like a candle .
11 I wonder what I should be like then ? '
12 And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out , for she could not remember ever having seen such a thing .
13 After a while , finding that nothing more happened , she decided on going into the garden at once ; but , alas for poor Alice !
14 when she got to the door , she found she had forgotten the little golden key , and when she went back to the table for it , she found she could not possibly reach it : she could see it quite plainly through the glass , and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table , but it was too slippery ; and when she had tired herself out with trying , the poor little thing sat down and cried .
15 ` Come , there 's no use in crying like that ! '
16 said Alice to herself , rather sharply ; ' I advise you to leave off this minute ! '
17 She generally gave herself very good advice , -LRB- though she very seldom followed it -RRB- , and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes ; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself , for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people .
18 ` But it 's no use now , ' thought poor Alice , ` to pretend to be two people !
19 Why , there 's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable person ! '
20 Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table : she opened it , and found in it a very small cake , on which the words ` EAT ME ' were beautifully marked in currants .
21 ` Well , I 'll eat it , ' said Alice , ` and if it makes me grow larger , I can reach the key ; and if it makes me grow smaller , I can creep under the XXXXX ; so either way I 'll get into the garden , and I do n't care which happens ! '	door		door|feeling|flame|garden|glass|half|poison|rate|tears|telescope

1 I do n't think that will be child 's play , ' said the Prince .
2 ` Hold fast by my tail , ' said Snati ; and in this way he pulled Ring up on the lowest shelf of the rock .
3 The Prince began to get giddy , but up went Snati on to the second shelf .
4 Ring was nearly swooning by this time , but Snati made a third effort and reached the top of the cliff , where the Prince fell down in a faint .
5 After a little , however , he recovered again , and they went a short distance along a level plain , until they came to a cave .
6 This was on Christmas Eve .
7 They went up above the cave , and found a window in it , through which they looked , and saw four trolls lying asleep beside the fire , over which a large porridge-pot was hanging .
8 ` Now you must empty all the salt into the porridge-pot , ' said Snati .
9 Ring did so , and soon the trolls wakened up .
10 The old hag , who was the most frightful of them all , went first to taste the porridge .
11 ` How comes this ? '
12 she said ; ` the porridge is salt !
13 I got the milk by witchcraft yesterday out of four kingdoms , and now it is salt ! '
14 All the others then came to taste the porridge , and thought it nice , but after they had finished it the old hag grew so thirsty that she could stand it no longer , and asked her daughter to go out and bring her some water from the river that ran near by . '
15 I wo n't go , ' said she , ` unless you lend me your bright gold piece . '
16 ` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' said the hag .
17 ` Die , then , ' said the girl .
18 ` Well , then , take it , you brat , ' said the old hag , ` and be off with you , and make haste with the water . '
19 The girl took the gold and ran out with it , and it was so bright that it shone all over the plain .
20 As soon as she came to the river she lay down to take a drink of the water , but meanwhile the two of them had got down off the roof and thrust her , head first , into the river .
21 The old hag began now to long for the XXXXX , and said that the girl would be running about with the gold piece all over the plain , so she asked her son to go and get her a drop of water . '	water		cave|cliff|daughter|drink|girl|head|porridge|trolls|water|way

1 The khaki boy passed his cap and everybody contributed .
2 The sealskin lady put in a crumpled note .
3 When Aunt Cyrilla straightened it out she saw that it was for twenty dollars .
4 Meanwhile , Lucy Rose had brought the basket .
5 She smiled at Aunt Cyrilla as she lugged it down the aisle and Aunt Cyrilla smiled back .
6 Lucy Rose had never touched that basket of her own accord before .
7 Ray 's boat went to Jacky , and Daisy 's doll to his oldest sister , the twins ' lace handkerchiefs to the two smaller girls and the hood to the baby .
8 Then the stockings were filled up with doughnuts and jelly cookies and the money was put in an envelope and pinned to the little mother 's jacket .
9 `` That baby is such a dear little fellow , '' said the sealskin lady gently .
10 `` He looks something like my little son .
11 He died eighteen Christmases ago . ''
12 Aunt Cyrilla put her hand over the lady 's kid glove .
13 `` So did mine , '' she said .
14 Then the two women smiled tenderly at each other .
15 Afterwards they rested from their labours and all had what Aunt Cyrilla called a `` snack '' of sandwiches and pound cake .
16 The khaki boy said he had n't tasted anything half so good since he left home .
17 `` They did n't give us pound cake in South Africa , '' he said .
18 When morning came the storm was still raging .
19 The children wakened and went wild with delight over their stockings .
20 The little mother found her envelope and tried to utter thanks and broke down ; and nobody knew what to say or do , when the conductor fortunately came in and made a diversion by telling them they might as well resign themselves to spending Christmas on the train .
21 `` This is serious , '' said the khaki XXXXX , `` when you consider that we 've no provisions .	boy		accord|aisle|anything|basket|boy|conductor|delight|everybody|note|thanks

1 So the Princess stayed with him , and said to the old man , ` Go back to the castle and tell my parents that I am staying here . '
2 Her parents were very much vexed when the old man came back and told them this , but as soon as the three months of the Prince 's enchantment were over , he ceased to be an eagle and became once more a man , and they returned home together .
3 And then they lived happily , and we who hear the story are happier still .
4 THE IRON STOVE -LRB- 7 -RRB- -LRB- 7 -RRB- Grimm .
5 Once upon a time when wishes came true there was a king 's son who was enchanted by an old witch , so that he was obliged to sit in a large iron stove in a wood .
6 There he lived for many years , and no one could free him .
7 At last a king 's daughter came into the wood ; she had lost her way , and could not find her father 's kingdom again .
8 She had been wandering round and round for nine days , and she came at last to the iron case .
9 A voice came from within and asked her , ` Where do you come from , and where do you want to go ? '
10 She answered , ' I have lost my way to my father 's kingdom , and I shall never get home again . '
11 Then the voice from the iron stove said , ' I will help you to find your home again , and that in a very short time , if you will promise to do what I ask you .
12 I am a greater prince than you are a princess , and I will marry you . '
13 Then she grew frightened , and thought , ` What can a young lassie do with an iron stove ? '
14 But as she wanted very much to go home to her father , she promised to do what he wished .
15 He said , ` You must come again , and bring a knife with you to scrape a hole in the iron . '
16 Then he gave her someone for a guide , who walked near her and said nothing , but he brought her in two hours to her house .
17 There was great joy in the castle when the Princess came back , and the old King fell on her neck and kissed her .
18 But she was very much troubled , and said , ` Dear father , listen to what has befallen me !
19 I should never have come home again out of the great wild wood if I had not come to an iron stove , to whom I have had to promise that I will go back to free him and marry him ! '
20 The old King was so frightened that he nearly fainted , for she was his only daughter .
21 So they consulted together , and determined that the miller 's XXXXX , who was very beautiful , should take her place .	daughter		daughter|home|knife|neck|nothing|one|princess|round|voice|wishes

1 Once upon a time there was a king who determined to take a long voyage .
2 He assembled his fleet and all the seamen , and set out .
3 They went straight on night and day , until they came to an island which was covered with large trees , and under every tree lay a lion .
4 As soon as the King had landed his men , the lions all rose up together and tried to devour them .
5 After a long battle they managed to overcome the wild beasts , but the greater number of the men were killed .
6 Those who remained alive now went on through the forest and found on the other side of it a beautiful garden , in which all the plants of the world flourished together .
7 There were also in the garden three springs : the first flowed with silver , the second with gold , and the third with pearls .
8 The men unbuckled their knapsacks and filled them with those precious things .
9 In the middle of the garden they found a large lake , and when they reached the edge of it the Lake began to speak , and said to them , ` What men are you , and what brings you here ?
10 Are you come to visit our king ? '
11 But they were too much frightened to answer .
12 Then the Lake said , ` You do well to be afraid , for it is at your peril that you are come hither .
13 Our king , who has seven heads , is now asleep , but in a few minutes he will wake up and come to me to take his bath !
14 Woe to anyone who meets him in the garden , for it is impossible to escape from him .
15 This is what you must do if you wish to save your lives .
16 Take off your clothes and spread them on the path which leads from here to the castle .
17 The King will then glide over something soft , which he likes very much , and he will be so pleased with that that he will not devour you .
18 He will give you some punishment , but then he will let you go . '
19 The men did as the Lake advised them , and waited for a time .
20 At noon the earth began to quake , and opened in many places , and out of the openings appeared lions , tigers , and other wild beasts , which surrounded the castle , and thousands and thousands of beasts came out of the castle following their king , the Seven-headed Serpent .
21 The Serpent glided over the XXXXX which were spread for him , came to the Lake , and asked it who had strewed those soft things on the path ?	clothes		castle|clothes|edge|fleet|garden|island|lions|pearls|something|voyage

1 ` That is all very well , ' said the King , ` but I can not give away my daughter until there stands in front of my palace a garden in which there are three fountains , of which the first must play gold , the second diamonds , and the third brilliants . '
2 So the old woman had to strike again three times upon the ground with the rod , and the next morning the garden was there .
3 The King now gave his consent , and the wedding was fixed for the very next day .
4 Then the Crab said to the old fisherman , ` Now take this rod ; go and knock with it on a certain mountain ; then a black man -LRB- 6 -RRB- will come out and ask you what you wish for .
5 Answer him thus : '' Your master , the King , has sent me to tell you that you must send him his golden garment that is like the sun . ''
6 Make him give you , besides , the queenly robes of gold and precious stones which are like the flowery meadows , and bring them both to me .
7 And bring me also the golden cushion . '
8 -LRB- 6 -RRB- Ein Mohr .
9 The old man went and did his errand .
10 When he had brought the precious robes , the Crab put on the golden garment and then crept upon the golden cushion , and in this way the fisherman carried him to the castle , where the Crab presented the other garment to his bride .
11 Now the ceremony took place , and when the married pair were alone together the Crab made himself known to his young wife , and told her how he was the son of the greatest king in the world , and how he was enchanted , so that he became a crab by day and was a man only at night ; and he could also change himself into an eagle as often as he wished .
12 No sooner had he said this than he shook himself , and immediately became a handsome youth , but the next morning he was forced to creep back again into his crab-shell .
13 And the same thing happened every day .
14 But the Princess 's affection for the Crab , and the polite attention with which she behaved to him , surprised the royal family very much .
15 They suspected some secret , but though they spied and spied , they could not discover it .
16 Thus a year passed away , and the Princess had a son , whom she called Benjamin .
17 But her mother still thought the whole matter very strange .
18 At last she said to the King that he ought to ask his daughter whether she would not like to have another husband instead of the Crab ?
19 But when the daughter was questioned she only answered : ' I am married to the Crab , and him only will I have . '
20 Then the King said to her , ' I will appoint a tournament in your honour , and I will invite all the princes in the world to it , and if any one of them pleases you , you shall marry him . '
21 In the evening the Princess told this to the Crab , who said to her , ` Take this XXXXX , go to the garden gate and knock with it , then a black man will come out and say to you , '' Why have you called me , and what do you require of me ? ''	rod		consent|daughter|fisherman|husband|master|mother|rod|secret|tournament|woman

1 For two days he resisted the temptation to go and look , but on the third he could stand it no longer , and taking a torch in his hand he hurried to the tower , and unfastened one lock after the other of the little iron door until it burst open .
2 What an unexpected sight met his gaze !
3 The Prince perceived a small room black with smoke , lit up feebly by a fire from which issued long blue flames .
4 Over the fire hung a huge cauldron full of boiling pitch , and fastened into the cauldron by iron chains stood a wretched man screaming with agony .
5 Iwanich was much horrified at the sight before him , and asked the man what terrible crime he had committed to be punished in this dreadful fashion . '
6 I will tell you everything , ' said the man in the cauldron ; ` but first relieve my torments a little , I implore you . '
7 ` And how can I do that ? '
8 asked the Prince .
9 ` With a little water , ' replied the man ; ` only sprinkle a few drops over me and I shall feel better . '
10 The Prince , moved by pity , without thinking what he was doing , ran to the courtyard of the castle , and filled a jug with water , which he poured over the man in the cauldron .
11 In a moment a most fearful crash was heard , as if all the pillars of the palace were giving way , and the palace itself , with towers and doors , windows and the cauldron , whirled round the bewildered Prince 's head .
12 This continued for a few minutes , and then everything vanished into thin air , and Iwanich found himself suddenly alone upon a desolate heath covered with rocks and stones .
13 The Prince , who now realised what his heedlessness had done , cursed too late his spirit of curiosity .
14 In his despair he wandered on over the heath , never looking where he put his feet , and full of sorrowful thoughts .
15 At last he saw a light in the distance , which came from a miserable-looking little hut .
16 The owner of it was none other than the kind-hearted gaunt grey beggar who had given the Prince the bag of bread-crumbs and the hare .
17 Without recognising Iwanich , he opened the door when he knocked and gave him shelter for the night .
18 On the following morning the Prince asked his host if he could get him any work to do , as he was quite unknown in the neighbourhood , and had not enough money to take him home .
19 ` My son , ' replied the old man , ` all this country round here is uninhabited ; I myself have to wander to distant villages for my living , and even then I do not very often find enough to satisfy my hunger .
20 But if you would like to take service with the old witch Corva , go straight up the little stream which flows below my hut for about three hours , and you will come to a sand-hill on the left-hand side ; that is where she lives . '
21 Iwanich thanked the gaunt grey beggar for his information , and went on his XXXXX .	way		bag|courtyard|door|man|palace|pitch|smoke|son|way|windows

1 But the two brothers had grown quite green with envy , and only declared the more that Ferko was nothing but a wicked magician .
2 The King , although he had been surprised and astonished at the way his commands had been carried out , was very vexed that the stranger should escape with his life , and turning to the two brothers he said , ` He has certainly accomplished the first task , with the aid no doubt of his diabolical magic ; but what shall we give him to do now ?
3 Let us make it as difficult as possible , and if he fails he shall die . '
4 Then the eldest brother replied , ` The corn has all been cut , but it has not yet been put into barns ; let the knave collect all the grain in the kingdom into one big heap before to-morrow night , and if as much as a stalk of corn is left let him be put to death .
5 The Princess grew white with terror when she heard these words ; but Ferko felt much more cheerful than he had done the first time , and wandered out into the meadows again , wondering how he was to get out of the difficulty .
6 But he could think of no way of escape .
7 The sun sank to rest and night came on , when a little mouse started out of the grass at Ferko 's feet , and said to him , ` I 'm delighted to see you , my kind benefactor ; but why are you looking so sad ?
8 Can I be of any help to you , and thus repay your great kindness to me ? '
9 Then Ferko recognised the mouse whose front paws he had healed , and replied , ` Alas I how can you help me in a matter that is beyond any human power !
10 Before to-morrow night all the grain in the kingdom has to be gathered into one big heap , and if as much as a stalk of corn is wanting I must pay for it with my life . '
11 ` Is that all ? '
12 answered the mouse ; ` that need n't distress you much .
13 Just trust in me , and before the sun sets again you shall hear that your task is done . '
14 And with these words the little creature scampered away into the fields .
15 Ferko , who never doubted that the mouse would be as good as its word , lay down comforted on the soft grass and slept soundly till next morning .
16 The day passed slowly , and with the evening came the little mouse and said , ` Now there is not a single stalk of corn left in any field ; they are all collected in one big heap on the hill out there . '
17 Then Ferko went joyfully to the King and told him that all he demanded had been done .
18 And the whole Court went out to see the wonder , and were no less astonished than they had been the first time .
19 For in a heap higher than the King 's palace lay all the grain of the country , and not a single stalk of corn had been left behind in any of the fields .
20 And how had all this been done ?
21 The little XXXXX had summoned every other mouse in the land to its help , and together they had collected all the grain in the kingdom .	mouse		barns|day|doubt|heap|help|magician|mouse|paws|stranger|to-morrow

1 Fine weather , is n't it ? ''
2 XI OLD MR. TOAD 'S QUEER TONGUE Old Mother Nature doth provide For all her children , large or small .
3 Her wisdom foresees all their needs And makes provision for them all .
4 If you do n't believe it , just you go ask Old Mr. Toad , as Peter Rabbit did , how such a slow-moving fellow as he is can catch enough bugs and insects to keep him alive .
5 Perhaps you 'll learn something just as Peter did .
6 Peter and Old Mr. Toad sat in the rain watching the tiny Toads , who , you know , were Mr. Toad 's children , leaving their kindergarten in the Smiling Pool and starting out to see the Great World .
7 When the last little Toad had passed them , Old Mr. Toad suddenly remembered that he was hungry , very hungry indeed .
8 `` Did n't have time to eat much while I was in the Smiling Pool , '' he explained .
9 `` Could n't eat and sing too , and while I was down there , I was supposed to sing .
10 Now that it is time to quit singing , I begin to realize that I 've got a stomach to look out for as well as a voice .
11 See that bug over there on that leaf ?
12 Watch him . ''
13 Peter looked , and sure enough there was a fat bug crawling along on an old leaf .
14 He was about two inches from Old Mr. Toad , and he was crawling very fast .
15 And right while Peter was looking at him he disappeared .
16 Peter turned to look at Old Mr. Toad .
17 He had n't budged .
18 He was sitting exactly where he had been sitting all the time , but he was smacking his lips , and there was a twinkle of satisfaction in his eyes .
19 Peter opened his eyes very wide .
20 `` Wha -- what -- '' he began .
21 `` Nice XXXXX , '' interrupted Old Mr. Toad .	bug		Pool|bug|eyes|leaf|lips|needs|provision|something|weather|wisdom

1 When midnight came she saw afar off a little light , and thought , ` Ah !
2 if only I could reach that ! '
3 Then she got down from the tree and went towards the light .
4 She came to a little old house with a great deal of grass growing round , and stood in front of a little heap of wood .
5 She thought , ` Alas !
6 what am I coming to ? '
7 and peeped through the window ; but she saw nothing inside except big and little toads , and a table beautifully spread with roast meats and wine , and all the dishes and drinking-cups were of silver .
8 Then she took heart and knocked .
9 Then a fat toad called out : ` Little green toad with leg like crook , Open wide the door , and look Who it was the latch that shook . '
10 And a little toad came forward and let her in .
11 When she entered they all bid her welcome , and made her sit down .
12 They asked her how she came there and what she wanted .
13 Then she told everything that had happened to her , and how , because she had exceeded her permission only to speak three words , the stove had disappeared with the Prince ; and how she had searched a very long time , and must wander over mountain and valley till she found him .
14 Then the old toad said : ` Little green toad whose leg doth twist , Go to the corner of which you wist , And bring to me the large old kist . '
15 And the little toad went and brought out a great chest .
16 Then they gave her food and drink , and led her to a beautifully made bed of silk and samite , on which she lay down and slept soundly .
17 When the day dawned she arose , and the old toad gave her three things out of the huge chest to take with her .
18 She would have need of them , for she had to cross a high glass mountain , three cutting swords , and a great lake .
19 When she had passed these she would find her lover again .
20 So she was given three large needles , a plough-wheel , and three nuts , which she was to take great care of .
21 She set out with these XXXXX , and when she came to the glass mountain which was so slippery she stuck the three needles behind her feet and then in front , and so got over it , and when she was on the other side put them carefully away .	things		afar|care|drink|light|lover|need|nuts|things|window|words

1 As for Chester , when he went to bed that night in the little porch chamber , he cried heartily into his pillows .
2 He did n't care for pride any longer ; he just cried and did n't even pretend he was n't crying when Miss Salome came in to sit by him a little while and talk to him .
3 That talk comforted Chester .
4 He realized that , come what might , he would always have a good friend in Miss Salome -- aye , and in Clemantiny , too .
5 Chester never knew it , but after he had fallen asleep , with the tears still glistening on his brown cheeks , Clemantiny tiptoed silently in with a candle in her hand and bent over him with an expression of almost maternal tenderness on her face .
6 It was late and an aroma of boiling sugar hung about her .
7 She had sat up long after Miss Salome was abed , to boil another saucepan of taffy for Chester to eat on his journey .
8 `` Poor , dear child ! ''
9 she said , softly touching one of his crisp curls .
10 `` It 's a shame in Salome to insist on his going back .
11 She does n't know what she 's sending him to , or she would n't .
12 He did n't say much against his aunt , and Salome thinks she was only just a little bit cranky .
13 But I could guess . ''
14 Early in the morning Miss Salome and Chester started .
15 They were to drive to Montrose , leave their team there and take the boat for Belltown .
16 Chester bade farewell to the porch chamber and the long , white kitchen and the friendly barns with a full heart .
17 When he climbed into the wagon , Clemantiny put a big bagful of taffy into his hands .
18 `` Good-by , Chester , '' she said .
19 `` And remember , you 've always got a friend in me , anyhow . ''
20 Then Clemantiny went back into the kitchen and cried -- good , rough-spoken , tender-hearted Clemantiny sat down and cried .
21 It was an ideal day for travelling -- crisp , clear and sunny -- but neither Chester nor XXXXX Salome was in a mood for enjoyment .	Miss		Miss|Poor|bit|boat|cheeks|child|curls|face|tenderness|wagon

1 The King and Queen were sitting on a magnificent throne opposite the judges and the whole council .
2 The Soldier was already standing on the top of the ladder ; but when they wanted to put the rope round his neck , he said that the fulfilment of one innocent request was always granted to a poor criminal before he underwent his punishment .
3 He would so much like to smoke a small pipe of tobacco ; it would be his last pipe in this world .
4 The King could not refuse him this , and so he took out his tinder-box , and rubbed it once , twice , three times .
5 And lo , and behold I there stood all three dogs -- the one with eyes as large as saucers , the second with eyes as large as mill-wheels , and the third with eyes each as large as the Round Tower of Copenhagen .
6 ` Help me now , so that I may not be hanged ! '
7 cried the Soldier .
8 And thereupon the dogs fell upon the judges and the whole council , seized some by the legs , others by the nose , and threw them so high into the air that they fell and were smashed into pieces . '
9 I wo n't stand this ! '
10 said the King ; but the largest dog seized him too , and the Queen as well , and threw them up after the others .
11 This frightened the soldiers , and all the people cried : ` Good Soldier , you shall be our King , and marry the beautiful Princess ! '
12 Then they put the Soldier into the King 's coach , and the three dogs danced in front , crying ` Hurrah ! '
13 And the boys whistled and the soldiers presented arms .
14 The Princess came out of the copper castle , and became Queen ; and that pleased her very much .
15 The wedding festivities lasted for eight days , and the dogs sat at table and made eyes at everyone .
16 THE WITCH IN THE STONE BOAT -LRB- 31 -RRB- -LRB- 31 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
17 There were once a King and a Queen , and they had a son called Sigurd , who was very strong and active , and good-looking .
18 When the King came to be bowed down with the weight of years he spoke to his son , and said that now it was time for him to look out for a fitting match for himself , for he did not know how long he might last now , and he would like to see him married before he died .
19 Sigurd was not averse to this , and asked his father where he thought it best to look for a wife .
20 The King answered that in a certain country there was a King who had a beautiful daughter , and he thought it would be most desirable if Sigurd could get her .
21 So the two parted , and Sigurd prepared for the journey , and went to where his XXXXX had directed him .	father		WITCH|daughter|dogs|father|judges|legs|others|saucers|top|world

1 One day the maiden took him into a secret chamber , where a little gold box was standing on a silver table .
2 Pointing to the box , she said , ` Here is my greatest treasure , whose like is not to be found in the whole world .
3 It is a precious gold ring .
4 When you marry me , I will give you this ring as a marriage gift , and it will make you the happiest of mortal men .
5 But in order that our love may last for ever , you must give me for the ring three drops of blood from the little finger of your left hand . '
6 When the youth heard these words a cold shudder ran over him , for he remembered that his soul was at stake .
7 He was cunning enough , however , to conceal his feelings and to make no direct answer , but he only asked the maiden , as if carelessly , what was remarkable about the ring ?
8 She answered , ` No mortal is able entirely to understand the power of this ring , because no one thoroughly understands the secret signs engraved upon it .
9 But even with my half-knowledge I can work great wonders .
10 If I put the ring upon the little finger of my left hand , then I can fly like a bird through the air wherever I wish to go .
11 If I put it on the third finger of my left hand I am invisible , and I can see everything that passes around me , though no one can see me .
12 If I put the ring upon the middle finger of my left hand , then neither fire nor water nor any sharp weapon can hurt me .
13 If I put it on the forefinger of my left hand , then I can with its help produce whatever I wish .
14 I can in a single moment build houses or anything I desire .
15 Finally , as long as I wear the ring on the thumb of my left hand , that hand is so strong that it can break down rocks and walls .
16 Besides these , the ring has other secret signs which , as I said , no one can understand .
17 No doubt it contains secrets of great importance .
18 The ring formerly belonged to King Solomon , the wisest of kings , during whose reign the wisest men lived .
19 But it is not known whether this ring was ever made by mortal hands : it is supposed that an angel gave it to the wise King . '
20 When the youth heard all this he determined to try and get possession of the ring , though he did not quite believe in all its wonderful gifts .
21 He wished the XXXXX would let him have it in his hand , but he did not quite like to ask her to do so , and after a while she put it back into the box .	maiden		bird|box|everything|feelings|help|maiden|secrets|shudder|walls|world

1 I had heard that you swallowed your old suits , but I never half believed it .
2 Now I know it is so and just how you do it , and I feel as if I had learned something worth knowing .
3 Do you know , I think you are one of the most interesting and wonderful of all my neighbors , and I 'll never laugh at or tease you again , Mr. Toad . ''
4 `` Hump ! ''
5 grunted Old Mr. Toad again , but it was very clear that he was a little flattered by Peter 's interest in him and was rapidly recovering his good nature .
6 `` There is one thing I do n't understand yet , '' said Peter , `` and that is where you go to to sleep all winter .
7 Do you go down into the mud at the bottom of the Smiling Pool the way Grandfather Frog does ? ''
8 `` Certainly not ! ''
9 retorted Old Mr. Toad .
10 `` Use your common sense , Peter Rabbit .
11 If I had spent the winter in the Smiling Pool , do you suppose I would have left it to come way up here and then have turned right around and gone back there to sing ?
12 I 'm not so fond of long journeys as all that . ''
13 `` That 's so . ''
14 Peter looked foolish .
15 `` I did n't think of that when I spoke . ''
16 `` The trouble with you , and with a lot of other people , is that you speak first and do your thinking afterward , when you do any thinking at all , '' grunted Old Mr. Toad .
17 `` Now if I wanted to , I could disappear right here . ''
18 `` You mean that you would hide under that old board just as you did before , '' said Peter , with a very wise look .
19 `` Nothing of the sort ! ''
20 snapped Old Mr. Toad .
21 `` I could disappear and not go near that old XXXXX , not a step nearer than I am now . ''	board		Hump|Mr.|Pool|board|journeys|mud|neighbors|something|thing|thinking

1 At least Bella said so , because the party was to be a very fashionable affair .
2 She said my old grey silk would n't do at all .
3 Of course she knows .
4 She had to have a new dress for it , and , we could n't both have that .
5 George could n't afford it these hard times .
6 And , as Bella said , it would be very foolish of me to get an expensive dress that would be no use to me afterward .
7 But it does n't matter .
8 And , of course , somebody had to stay with the children . ''
9 `` Of course , '' assented Margaret dreamily .
10 Mrs. Cunningham 's `` at home '' was of no particular interest .
11 The guests were all middle-aged people whom the M.P. had known in his boyhood and Margaret , in her presumptuous youth , thought it would be a very prosy affair , although it had made quite a sensation in quiet little Murraybridge , where people still called an `` at home '' a party plain and simple .
12 `` I saw Mr. Reynolds in church Sunday afternoon , '' she went on .
13 `` He is very fine-looking , I think .
14 Did you ever meet him ? ''
15 `` I used to know him very well long ago , '' answered Aunt Beatrice , bowing still lower over her work .
16 `` He used to live down in Wentworth , you know , and he visited his married sister here very often .
17 He was only a boy at that time .
18 Then -- he went out to British Columbia and -- and -- we never heard much more about him . ''
19 `` He 's very rich and owns dozens of mines and railroads and things like that , '' said Margaret , `` and he 's a member of the Dominion Parliament , too .
20 They say he 's one of the foremost men in the House and came very near getting a portfolio in the new cabinet .
21 I like XXXXX like that .	men		affair|cabinet|course|men|people|portfolio|sensation|silk|time|youth

1 As I told you , my going to Court has been as much as our lives are worth , and now we will both be tarred and feathered , and burnt in the public market-place .
2 It is terrible ! '
3 and she moaned and cried .
4 ` Never fear , little mother , ' answered Martin ; ` trust me , and you will see all will be well .
5 You may go to sleep with a quiet mind . '
6 And , stepping to the front of the hut , Martin threw his ring from the palm of one hand into the other , upon which twelve youths instantly appeared , and demanded what he wanted them to do .
7 Then he told them the King 's commands , and they answered that by next morning all should be accomplished exactly as the King had ordered .
8 Next morning when the King awoke , and looked out of his window , to his amazement he beheld a magnificent castle , just opposite his own palace , and joined to it a bridge of pure crystal .
9 At each side of the bridge trees were growing , from whose branches hung golden and silver apples , among which birds of Paradise perched .
10 At the right , gleaming in the sun , were the five golden cupolas of a splendid church , whose bells rang out , as if they would summon people from all corners of the earth to come and behold the wonder .
11 Now , though the King would much rather have seen his future son-in-law tarred , feathered , and burnt at the stake , he remembered his royal oath , and had to make the best of a bad business .
12 So he took heart of grace , and made Martin a Duke , and gave his daughter a rich dowry , and prepared the grandest wedding-feast that had ever been seen , so that to this day the old people in the country still talk of it .
13 After the wedding Martin and his royal bride went to dwell in the magnificent new palace , and here Martin lived in the greatest comfort and luxury , such luxury as he had never imagined .
14 But though he was as happy as the day was long , and as merry as a grig , the King 's daughter fretted all day , thinking of the indignity that had been done her in making her marry Martin , the poor widow 's son , instead of a rich young Prince from a foreign country .
15 So unhappy was she that she spent all her time wondering how she should get rid of her undesirable husband .
16 And first she determined to learn the secret of his power , and , with flattering , caressing words , she tried to coax him to tell her how he was so clever that there was nothing in the world that he could not do .
17 At first he would tell her nothing ; but once , when he was in a yielding mood , she approached him with a winning smile on her lovely face , and , speaking flattering words to him , she gave him a potion to drink , with a sweet , strong taste .
18 And when he had drunk it Martin 's lips were unsealed , and he told her that all his power lay in the magic ring that he wore on his finger , and he described to her how to use it , and , still speaking , he fell into a deep sleep .
19 And when she saw that the potion had worked , and that he was sound asleep , the Princess took the magic ring from his finger , and , going into the courtyard , she threw it from the palm of one hand into the other .
20 On the instant the twelve youths appeared , and asked her what she commanded them to do .
21 Then she told them that by the next morning they were to do away with the castle , and the XXXXX , and the church , and put in their stead the humble hut in which Martin used to live with his mother , and that while he slept her husband was to be carried to his old lowly room ; and that they were to bear her away to the utmost ends of the earth , where an old King lived who would make her welcome in his palace , and surround her with the state that befitted a royal Princess .	bridge		bridge|castle|finger|lives|market-place|secret|taste|thinking|world|youths

1 ` Bring more , ' he cried , ` these crumbs do n't fill it . '
2 So seven thousand waggons of the gold of the whole kingdom were driven up ; these the strong man shoved into the sack , oxen and all . '
3 I will no longer be particular , ' he said , ` and will take what comes , so that the sack shall be full . '
4 When everything was put in and there was not yet enough , he said , ' I will make an end of this ; it is easy to fasten a sack when it is not full . '
5 Then he threw it on his back and went with his companions .
6 Now , when the King saw how a single man was carrying away the wealth of the whole country he was very angry , and made his cavalry mount and pursue the Six , and bring back the strong man with the sack .
7 Two regiments soon overtook them , and called to them , ` You are prisoners !
8 lay down the sack of gold or you shall be cut down . '
9 ` What do you say ? '
10 said the blower , ` we are prisoners ?
11 Before that , you shall dance in the air ! '
12 And he held one nostril and blew with the other at the two regiments ; they were separated and blown away in the blue sky over the mountains , one this way , and the other that .
13 A sergeant-major cried for mercy , saying he had nine wounds , and was a brave fellow , and did not deserve this disgrace .
14 So the blower let him off , and he came down without hurt .
15 Then he said to him , ` Now go home to the King , and say that if he sends any more cavalry I will blow them all into the air . '
16 When the King received the message , he said , ` Let the fellows go ; they are bewitched . '
17 Then the Six brought the treasure home , shared it among themselves , and lived contentedly till the end of their days .
18 THE WIZARD KING -LRB- 14 -RRB- -LRB- 14 -RRB- From Les fees illustres .
19 In very ancient times there lived a King , whose power lay not only in the vast extent of his dominions , but also in the magic secrets of which he was master .
20 After spending the greater part of his early youth in pleasure , he met a Princess of such remarkable beauty that he at once asked her hand in marriage , and , having obtained it , considered himself the happiest of men .
21 After a year 's time a son was born , worthy in every XXXXX of such distinguished parents , and much admired by the whole Court .	way		cavalry|fellows|man|master|sack|sky|times|way|wealth|wounds

1 `` You do n't know when to do the right thing at the right time .
2 You 're safe enough in your nest there , but it 's war for me down here .
3 Stop singing a minute , Darzee . ''
4 `` For the great , the beautiful Rikki-tikki 's sake I will stop , '' said Darzee .
5 `` What is it , O Killer of the terrible Nag ? ''
6 `` Where is Nagaina , for the third time ? ''
7 `` On the rubbish heap by the stables , mourning for Nag .
8 Great is Rikki-tikki with the white teeth . ''
9 `` Bother my white teeth !
10 Have you ever heard where she keeps her eggs ? ''
11 `` In the melon bed , on the end nearest the wall , where the sun strikes nearly all day .
12 She hid them there weeks ago . ''
13 `` And you never thought it worth while to tell me ?
14 The end nearest the wall , you said ? ''
15 `` Rikki-tikki , you are not going to eat her eggs ? ''
16 `` Not eat exactly ; no .
17 Darzee , if you have a grain of sense you will fly off to the stables and pretend that your wing is broken , and let Nagaina chase you away to this bush .
18 I must get to the melon-bed , and if I went there now she 'd see me . ''
19 Darzee was a feather-brained little fellow who could never hold more than one idea at a time in his head .
20 And just because he knew that Nagaina 's children were born in eggs like his own , he did n't think at first that it was fair to kill them .
21 But his wife was a sensible bird , and she knew that cobra 's XXXXX meant young cobras later on .	eggs		children|eggs|end|head|idea|nest|sake|stables|thing|time

1 Being invisible , he was able to enter unharmed .
2 In the middle of the temple was an altar , on which lay a book , and behind the altar hung a great curtain .
3 The Prince approached the altar and opened the book , which contained the names of all the lovers in the world : and in it he read that Rosalie had been carried off by the Prince of the Air to an abyss which had no entrance except the one that lay by way of the Fountain of Gold .
4 Now , as the Prince had not the smallest idea where this fountain was to be found , it might be thought that he was not much nearer Rosalie than before .
5 This was not , however , the view taken by the Prince .
6 ` Though every step that I take may perhaps lead me further from her , ' he said to himself , ' I am still thankful to know that she is alive somewhere . '
7 On leaving the temple the Invisible Prince saw six paths lying before him , each of which led through the wood .
8 He was hesitating which to choose , when he suddenly beheld two people coming towards him , down the track which lay most to his right .
9 They turned out to be the Prince Gnome and his friend , and the sudden desire to get some news of his sister , Princess Argentine , caused the Invisible Prince to follow them and to listen to their conversation .
10 ` Do you think , ' the Prince Gnome was saying , ` do you think that I would not break my chains if I could ?
11 I know that the Princess Argentine will never love me , yet each day I feel her dearer still .
12 And as if this were not enough , I have the horror of feeling that she probably loves another .
13 So I have resolved to put myself out of my pain by means of the Golden Fountain .
14 A single drop of its water falling on the sand around will trace the name of my rival in her heart .
15 I dread the test , and yet this very dread convinces me of my misfortune . '
16 It may be imagined that after listening to these words the Invisible Prince followed Prince Gnome like his shadow , and after walking some time they arrived at the Golden Fountain .
17 The unhappy lover stooped down with a sigh , and dipping his finger in the water let fall a drop on the sand .
18 It instantly wrote the name of Prince Flame , his brother .
19 The shock of this discovery was so real , that Prince Gnome sank fainting into the arms of his friend .
20 Meanwhile the Invisible Prince was turning over in his mind how he could best deliver Rosalie .
21 As , since he had been touched by the Giant 's ring , he had the power to live in the water as well as on land , he at once dived into the XXXXX .	fountain		arms|dread|entrance|finger|fountain|paths|people|shadow|shock|world

1 Remember that , young un .
2 Always keep hidden as much as possible , even if you have to go a mile out of your way .
3 I lead the battery when it comes to that sort of climbing . ''
4 `` Fired at without the chance of running into the people who are firing ! ''
5 said the troop-horse , thinking hard .
6 `` I could n't stand that .
7 I should want to charge -- with Dick . ''
8 `` Oh , no , you would n't .
9 You know that as soon as the guns are in position they 'll do all the charging .
10 That 's scientific and neat .
11 But knives -- pah ! ''
12 The baggage-camel had been bobbing his head to and fro for some time past , anxious to get a word in edgewise .
13 Then I heard him say , as he cleared his throat , nervously : `` I -- I -- I have fought a little , but not in that climbing way or that running way . ''
14 `` No .
15 Now you mention it , '' said Billy , `` you do n't look as though you were made for climbing or running -- much .
16 Well , how was it , old Hay-bales ? ''
17 `` The proper way , '' said the camel .
18 `` We all sat down -- '' `` Oh , my crupper and breastplate ! ''
19 said the troop-horse under his breath .
20 `` Sat down ! ''
21 `` We sat down -- a hundred of us , '' the XXXXX went on , `` in a big square , and the men piled our packs and saddles , outside the square , and they fired over our backs , the men did , on all sides of the square . ''	camel		camel|chance|crupper|firing|knives|people|sort|throat|time|un

1 But before they left their shelter she broke off a little bit of the rock , spoke some magic words over it , and threw it in the direction her mother was coming from .
2 In a moment a glittering palace arose before the eyes of the Fairy which blinded her with its dazzling splendour , and with its many doors and passages prevented her for some time from finding her way out of it .
3 In the meantime the black girl hurried on with the Prince , hastening to reach the river , where once on the other side they would for ever be out of the wicked Fairy 's power .
4 But before they had accomplished half the way they heard again the rustle of her garments and her muttered curses pursuing them closely .
5 The Prince was terrified ; he dared not look back , and he felt his strength giving way .
6 But before he had time to despair the girl uttered some more magic words , and immediately she herself was changed into a pond , and the Prince into a duck swimming on its surface .
7 When the Fairy saw this her rage knew no bounds , and she used all her magic wits to make the pond disappear ; she caused a hill of sand to arise at her feet , meaning it to dry up the water at once .
8 But the sand hill only drove the pond a little farther away , and its waters seemed to increase instead of diminishing .
9 When the old woman saw that the powers of her magic were of so little avail , she had recourse to cunning .
10 She threw a lot of gold nuts into the pond , hoping in this way to catch the duck , but all her efforts were fruitless , for the little creature refused to let itself be caught .
11 Then a new idea struck the wicked old woman , and hiding herself behind the rock which had sheltered the fugitives , she waited behind it , watching carefully for the moment when the Prince and her daughter should resume their natural forms and continue their journey .
12 She had not to wait long , for as soon as the girl thought her mother was safely out of the way , she changed herself and the Prince once more into their human shape , and set out cheerfully for the river .
13 But they had not gone many steps when the wicked Fairy hurried after them , a drawn dagger in her hand , and was close upon them , when suddenly , instead of the Prince and her daughter , she found herself in front of a great stone church , whose entrance was carefully guarded by a huge monk .
14 Breathless with rage and passion , she tried to plunge her dagger into the monk 's heart , but it fell shattered in pieces at her feet .
15 In her desperation she determined to pull down the church , and thus to destroy her two victims for ever .
16 She stamped three times on the ground , and the earth trembled , and both the church and the monk began to shake .
17 As soon as the Fairy saw this she retreated to some distance from the building , so as not to be hurt herself by its fall .
18 But once more her scheme was doomed to failure , for hardly had she gone a yard from the church than both it and the monk disappeared , and she found herself in a wood black as night , and full of wolves and bears and wild animals of all sorts and descriptions .
19 Then her wrath gave place to terror , for she feared every moment to be torn in pieces by the beasts who one and all seemed to defy her power .
20 She thought it wisest to make her way as best she could out of the forest , and then to pursue the fugitives once more and accomplish their destruction either by force or cunning .
21 In the meantime the Prince and the black girl had again assumed their natural forms , and were hurrying on as fast as they could to reach the XXXXX .	river		bit|bounds|church|feet|heart|moment|rage|river|rustle|times

1 The one was saying to the other as the weary youth lay down , ` Is there anything the least wonderful or remarkable about this neighbourhood ? ' '
2 I should just think there was , ' replied the other ; ` many things that do n't exist anywhere else in the world .
3 There is a lake down there below us , and anyone who bathes in it , though he were at death 's door , becomes sound and well on the spot , and those who wash their eyes with the dew on this hill become as sharp-sighted as the eagle , even if they have been blind from their youth . '
4 ` Well , ' answered the first raven , ` my eyes are in no want of this healing bath , for , Heaven be praised , they are as good as ever they were ; but my wing has been very feeble and weak ever since it was shot by an arrow many years ago , so let us fly at once to the lake that I may be restored to health and strength again . '
5 And so they flew away .
6 Their words rejoiced Ferko 's heart , and he waited impatiently till evening should come and he could rub the precious dew on his sightless eyes .
7 At last it began to grow dusk , and the sun sank behind the mountains ; gradually it became cooler on the hill , and the grass grew wet with dew .
8 Then Ferko buried his face in the ground till his eyes were damp with dewdrops , and in a moment he saw clearer than he had ever done in his life before .
9 The moon was shining brightly , and lighted him to the lake where he could bathe his poor broken legs .
10 Then Ferko crawled to the edge of the lake and dipped his limbs in the water .
11 No sooner had he done so than his legs felt as sound and strong as they had been before , and Ferko thanked the kind fate that had led him to the hill where he had overheard the ravens ' conversation .
12 He filled a bottle with the healing water , and then continued his journey in the best of spirits .
13 He had not gone far before he met a wolf , who was limping disconsolately along on three legs , and who on perceiving Ferko began to howl dismally .
14 ` My good friend , ' said the youth , ` be of good cheer , for I can soon heal your leg , ' and with these words he poured some of the precious water over the wolf 's paw , and in a minute the animal was springing about sound and well on all fours .
15 The grateful creature thanked his benefactor warmly , and promised Ferko to do him a good turn if he should ever need it .
16 Ferko continued his way till he came to a ploughed field .
17 Here he noticed a little mouse creeping wearily along on its hind paws , for its front paws had both been broken in a trap .
18 Ferko felt so sorry for the little beast that he spoke to it in the most friendly manner , and washed its small paws with the healing water .
19 In a moment the mouse was sound and whole , and after thanking the kind physician it scampered away over the ploughed furrows .
20 Ferko again proceeded on his journey , but he had n't gone far before a queen bee flew against him , trailing one wing behind her , which had been cruelly torn in two by a big bird .
21 Ferko was no less willing to help her than he had been to help the XXXXX and the mouse , so he poured some healing drops over the wounded wing .	wolf		anyone|beast|dewdrops|dusk|howl|limbs|moon|mouse|trap|wolf

1 Get round with your hind legs under you the instant you feel the rein on your neck .
2 If you have n't room to swing round , rear up a little and come round on your hind legs .
3 That 's being bridle-wise . ''
4 `` We are n't taught that way , '' said Billy the mule stiffly .
5 `` We 're taught to obey the man at our head : step off when he says so , and step in when he says so .
6 I suppose it comes to the same thing .
7 Now , with all this fine fancy business and rearing , which must be very bad for your hocks , what do you do ? ''
8 `` That depends , '' said the troop-horse .
9 `` Generally I have to go in among a lot of yelling , hairy men with knives -- long shiny knives , worse than the farrier 's knives -- and I have to take care that Dick 's boot is just touching the next man 's boot without crushing it .
10 I can see Dick 's lance to the right of my right eye , and I know I 'm safe .
11 I should n't care to be the man or horse that stood up to Dick and me when we 're in a hurry . ''
12 `` Do n't the knives hurt ? ''
13 said the young mule .
14 `` Well , I got one cut across the chest once , but that was n't Dick 's fault -- '' `` A lot I should have cared whose fault it was , if it hurt ! ''
15 said the young mule .
16 `` You must , '' said the troop horse .
17 `` If you do n't trust your man , you may as well run away at once .
18 That 's what some of our horses do , and I do n't blame them .
19 As I was saying , it was n't Dick 's fault .
20 The man was lying on the ground , and I stretched myself not to tread on him , and he slashed up at me .
21 Next time I have to go over a XXXXX lying down I shall step on him -- hard . ''	man		business|cut|eye|head|hurry|lot|man|neck|round|way

1 `` He is altogether without hair , and I could kill him with a touch of my foot .
2 But see , he looks up and is not afraid . ''
3 The moonlight was blocked out of the mouth of the cave , for Shere Khan 's great square head and shoulders were thrust into the entrance .
4 Tabaqui , behind him , was squeaking : `` My lord , my lord , it went in here ! ''
5 `` Shere Khan does us great honor , '' said Father Wolf , but his eyes were very angry .
6 `` What does Shere Khan need ? ''
7 `` My quarry .
8 A man 's cub went this way , '' said Shere Khan .
9 `` Its parents have run off .
10 Give it to me . ''
11 Shere Khan had jumped at a woodcutter 's campfire , as Father Wolf had said , and was furious from the pain of his burned feet .
12 But Father Wolf knew that the mouth of the cave was too narrow for a tiger to come in by .
13 Even where he was , Shere Khan 's shoulders and forepaws were cramped for want of room , as a man 's would be if he tried to fight in a barrel .
14 `` The Wolves are a free people , '' said Father Wolf .
15 `` They take orders from the Head of the Pack , and not from any striped cattle-killer .
16 The man 's cub is ours -- to kill if we choose . ''
17 `` Ye choose and ye do not choose !
18 What talk is this of choosing ?
19 By the bull that I killed , am I to stand nosing into your dog 's den for my fair dues ?
20 It is I , Shere Khan , who speak ! ''
21 The XXXXX 's roar filled the cave with thunder .	tiger		Head|campfire|den|eyes|foot|forepaws|hair|pain|quarry|tiger

1 It means life or death to your man , and of course that 's life and death to you .
2 Get round with your hind legs under you the instant you feel the rein on your neck .
3 If you have n't room to swing round , rear up a little and come round on your hind legs .
4 That 's being bridle-wise . ''
5 `` We are n't taught that way , '' said Billy the mule stiffly .
6 `` We 're taught to obey the man at our head : step off when he says so , and step in when he says so .
7 I suppose it comes to the same thing .
8 Now , with all this fine fancy business and rearing , which must be very bad for your hocks , what do you do ? ''
9 `` That depends , '' said the troop-horse .
10 `` Generally I have to go in among a lot of yelling , hairy men with knives -- long shiny knives , worse than the farrier 's knives -- and I have to take care that Dick 's boot is just touching the next man 's boot without crushing it .
11 I can see Dick 's lance to the right of my right eye , and I know I 'm safe .
12 I should n't care to be the man or horse that stood up to Dick and me when we 're in a hurry . ''
13 `` Do n't the knives hurt ? ''
14 said the young mule .
15 `` Well , I got one cut across the chest once , but that was n't Dick 's fault -- '' `` A lot I should have cared whose fault it was , if it hurt ! ''
16 said the young mule .
17 `` You must , '' said the troop horse .
18 `` If you do n't trust your man , you may as well run away at once .
19 That 's what some of our horses do , and I do n't blame them .
20 As I was saying , it was n't Dick 's fault .
21 The XXXXX was lying on the ground , and I stretched myself not to tread on him , and he slashed up at me .	man		death|fault|hurry|instant|knives|legs|life|man|rearing|thing

1 In his despair he wandered on over the heath , never looking where he put his feet , and full of sorrowful thoughts .
2 At last he saw a light in the distance , which came from a miserable-looking little hut .
3 The owner of it was none other than the kind-hearted gaunt grey beggar who had given the Prince the bag of bread-crumbs and the hare .
4 Without recognising Iwanich , he opened the door when he knocked and gave him shelter for the night .
5 On the following morning the Prince asked his host if he could get him any work to do , as he was quite unknown in the neighbourhood , and had not enough money to take him home .
6 ` My son , ' replied the old man , ` all this country round here is uninhabited ; I myself have to wander to distant villages for my living , and even then I do not very often find enough to satisfy my hunger .
7 But if you would like to take service with the old witch Corva , go straight up the little stream which flows below my hut for about three hours , and you will come to a sand-hill on the left-hand side ; that is where she lives . '
8 Iwanich thanked the gaunt grey beggar for his information , and went on his way .
9 After walking for about three hours the Prince came upon a dreary-looking grey stone wall ; this was the back of the building and did not attract him ; but when he came upon the front of the house he found it even less inviting , for the old witch had surrounded her dwelling with a fence of spikes , on every one of which a man 's skull was stuck .
10 In this horrible enclosure stood a small black house , which had only two grated windows , all covered with cobwebs , and a battered iron door .
11 The Prince knocked , and a rasping woman 's voice told him to enter .
12 Iwanich opened the door , and found himself in a smoke-begrimed kitchen , in the presence of a hideous old woman who was warming her skinny hands at a fire .
13 The Prince offered to become her servant , and the old hag told him she was badly in want of one , and he seemed to be just the person to suit her .
14 When Iwanich asked what his work , and how much his wages would be , the witch bade him follow her , and led the way through a narrow damp passage into a vault , which served as a stable .
15 Here he perceived two pitch-black horses in a stall .
16 ` You see before you , ' said the old woman , ' a mare and her foal ; you have nothing to do but to lead them out to the fields every day , and to see that neither of them runs away from you .
17 If you look after them both for a whole year I will give you anything you like to ask ; but if , on the other hand , you let either of the animals escape you , your last hour is come , and your head shall be stuck on the last spike of my fence .
18 The other spikes , as you see , are already adorned , and the skulls are all those of different servants I have had who have failed to do what I demanded . '
19 Iwanich , who thought he could not be much worse off than he was already , agreed to the witch 's proposal .
20 At daybreak nest morning he drove his horses to the field , and brought them back in the evening without their ever having attempted to break away from him .
21 The XXXXX stood at her door and received him kindly , and set a good meal before him .	witch		fence|foal|hare|man|passage|servant|service|vault|windows|witch

1 ` You must learn to do as you are told , ' was all the Frog would reply .
2 But poor Saphir was so unhappy , and begged so hard for forgiveness , that at last the Frog 's anger gave way , and she held up to him a tiny diamond stone .
3 ` Go back , ' she said , ` to the castle , and bury this little diamond close to the door .
4 But be careful not to return to the stable or to the bedroom ; they have proved too fatal to you .
5 Walk straight to the garden and enter through a portico , into a small green wood , in the midst of which is a tree with a trunk of gold and leaves of emeralds .
6 Perched on this tree you will see the beautiful bird you have been seeking so long .
7 You must cut the branch on which it is sitting , and bring it back to me without delay .
8 But I warn you solemnly that if you disobey my directions , as you have done twice before , you have nothing more to expect either of me or anyone else . '
9 With these words she jumped into the water , and the Prince , who had taken her threats much to heart , took his departure , firmly resolved not to deserve them .
10 He found it all just as he had been told : the portico , the wood , the magnificent tree , and the beautiful bird , which was sleeping soundly on one of the branches .
11 He speedily lopped off the branch , and though he noticed a splendid golden cage hanging close by , which would have been very useful for the bird to travel in , he left it alone , and came back to the fountain , holding his breath and walking on tip-toe all the way , for fear lest he should awake his prize .
12 But what was his surprise , when instead of finding the fountain in the spot where he had left it , he saw in its place a little rustic palace built in the best taste , and standing in the doorway a charming maiden , at whose sight his mind seemed to give way .
13 ` What !
14 Madam ! '
15 he cried , hardly knowing what he said .
16 ` What !
17 Is it you ? '
18 The maiden blushed and answered : ` Ah , my lord , it is long since I first beheld your face , but I did not think you had ever seen mine . '
19 ` Oh , madam , ' replied he , ` you can never guess the days and the hours I have passed lost in admiration of you . '
20 And after these words they each related all the strange things that had happened , and the more they talked the more they felt convinced of the truth of the images they had seen in their mirrors .
21 After some time spent in the most tender conversation , the Prince could not restrain himself from asking the lovely unknown by what lucky chance she was wandering in the forest ; where the fountain had gone ; and if she knew anything of the XXXXX to whom he owed all his happiness , and to whom he must give up the bird , which , somehow or other , was still sound asleep .	Frog		Frog|bedroom|bird|branch|breath|departure|directions|nothing|truth|words

1 I know what you want of me , ' the bird said .
2 ` You are looking for the Mother Dragon 's mare who is galloping about among the clouds .
3 I will summon all the eagles of the air together , and order them to catch the mare and bring her to you . '
4 And with these words the King of the Eagles flew away .
5 Towards evening the Prince heard a mighty rushing sound in the air , and when he looked up he saw thousands of eagles driving the mare before them .
6 They sank at his feet on to the ground and gave the mare over to him .
7 Then the Prince rode home to the old Mother Dragon , who was full of wonder when she saw him , and said , ` You have succeeded to-day in looking after my mare , and as a reward you shall come to my ball to-night . '
8 She gave him at the same time a cloak made of copper , and led him to a big room where several young he-dragons and she-dragons were dancing together .
9 Here , too , was the Flower Queen 's beautiful daughter .
10 Her dress was woven out of the most lovely flowers in the world , and her complexion was like lilies and roses .
11 As the Prince was dancing with her he managed to whisper in her ear , ' I have come to set you free ! '
12 Then the beautiful girl said to him , ` If you succeed in bringing the mare back safely the third day , ask the Mother Dragon to give you a foal of the mare as a reward . '
13 The ball came to an end at midnight , and early next morning the Prince again led the Mother Dragon 's mare out into the meadow .
14 But again she vanished before his eyes .
15 Then he took out his little bell and rang it twice .
16 In a moment the King of the Foxes stood before him and said : ' I know already what you want , and will summon all the foxes of the world together to find the mare who has hidden herself in a hill . '
17 With these words the King of the Foxes disappeared , and in the evening many thousand foxes brought the mare to the Prince .
18 Then he rode home to the Mother-Dragon , from whom he received this time a cloak made of silver , and again she led him to the ball-room .
19 The Flower Queen 's daughter was delighted to see him safe and sound , and when they were dancing together she whispered in his ear : ` If you succeed again to-morrow , wait for me with the foal in the meadow .
20 After the ball we will fly away together . '
21 On the third day the Prince led the mare to the meadow again ; but once more she vanished before his XXXXX .	eyes		air|ball|day|eagles|ear|eyes|mare|roses|to-day|words

1 said Mowgli .
2 `` If a cub can do it , there is nothing to fear . ''
3 So he strode round the corner and met the boy , took the pot from his hand , and disappeared into the mist while the boy howled with fear .
4 `` They are very like me , '' said Mowgli , blowing into the pot as he had seen the woman do .
5 `` This thing will die if I do not give it things to eat '' ; and he dropped twigs and dried bark on the red stuff .
6 Halfway up the hill he met Bagheera with the morning dew shining like moonstones on his coat .
7 `` Akela has missed , '' said the Panther .
8 `` They would have killed him last night , but they needed thee also .
9 They were looking for thee on the hill . ''
10 `` I was among the plowed lands .
11 I am ready .
12 See ! ''
13 Mowgli held up the fire-pot .
14 `` Good !
15 Now , I have seen men thrust a dry branch into that stuff , and presently the Red Flower blossomed at the end of it .
16 Art thou not afraid ? ''
17 `` No .
18 Why should I fear ?
19 I remember now -- if it is not a dream -- how , before I was a Wolf , I lay beside the Red Flower , and it was warm and pleasant . ''
20 All that day Mowgli sat in the cave tending his fire pot and dipping dry branches into it to see how they looked .
21 He found a XXXXX that satisfied him , and in the evening when Tabaqui came to the cave and told him rudely enough that he was wanted at the Council Rock , he laughed till Tabaqui ran away .	branch		Panther|boy|branch|branches|coat|corner|dew|end|lands|things

1 `` I should think I had , '' said Sea Catch .
2 `` Look at me ! ''
3 He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places ; one eye was almost out , and his sides were torn to ribbons .
4 `` Oh , you men , you men ! ''
5 Matkah said , fanning herself with her hind flipper .
6 `` Why ca n't you be sensible and settle your places quietly ?
7 You look as though you had been fighting with the Killer Whale . ''
8 `` I have n't been doing anything but fight since the middle of May .
9 The beach is disgracefully crowded this season .
10 I 've met at least a hundred seals from Lukannon Beach , house hunting .
11 Why ca n't people stay where they belong ? ''
12 `` I 've often thought we should be much happier if we hauled out at Otter Island instead of this crowded place , '' said Matkah .
13 `` Bah !
14 Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island .
15 If we went there they would say we were afraid .
16 We must preserve appearances , my dear . ''
17 Sea Catch sunk his head proudly between his fat shoulders and pretended to go to sleep for a few minutes , but all the time he was keeping a sharp lookout for a fight .
18 Now that all the seals and their wives were on the land , you could hear their clamor miles out to sea above the loudest gales .
19 At the lowest counting there were over a million seals on the beach -- old seals , mother seals , tiny babies , and holluschickie , fighting , scuffling , bleating , crawling , and playing together -- going down to the sea and coming up from it in gangs and regiments , lying over every foot of ground as far as the eye could reach , and skirmishing about in brigades through the fog .
20 It is nearly always foggy at Novastoshnah , except when the sun comes out and makes everything look all pearly and rainbow-colored for a little while .
21 Kotick , Matkah 's baby , was born in the middle of that confusion , and he was all head and shoulders , with pale , watery blue eyes , as tiny XXXXX must be , but there was something about his coat that made his mother look at him very closely .	seals		Killer|beach|counting|everything|land|men|ribbons|seals|season|wives

1 Then the heart of the elder sunk , and he hastened towards him , crying , ` Brother , little brother , come to me ; ' but he , being half a wolf , only continued his song .
2 And the louder the elder called him , ` Brother , little brother , come to me , ' the swifter he fled after his brothers the wolves , and the heavier grew his skin , till , with a long howl , he vanished into the depths of the forest .
3 So , with shame and anguish in his soul , the elder brother went back to his village , and , with his sister , mourned the little boy and the broken promise till the end of his life .
4 THE GLASS AXE -LRB- 19 -RRB- -LRB- 19 -RRB- From the Hungarian .
5 Kletke .
6 There was once upon a time a King and Queen who had everything they could possibly wish for in this world except a child .
7 At last , after twelve years , the Queen gave birth to a son ; but she did not live long to enjoy her happiness , for on the following day she died .
8 But before her death she called her husband to her and said , ` Never let the child put his feet on the ground , for as soon as he does so he will fall into the power of a wicked Fairy , who will do him much harm . '
9 And these were the last words the poor Queen spoke .
10 The boy throve and grew big , and when he was too heavy for his nurse to carry , a chair was made for him on little wheels , in which he could wander through the palace gardens without help ; at other times he was carried about on a litter , and he was always carefully watched and guarded for fear he should at any time put his feet to the ground .
11 But as this sort of life was bad for his health , the doctors ordered him horse exercise , and he soon became a first-rate rider , and used to go out for long excursions on horseback , accompanied always by his father 's stud-groom and a numerous retinue .
12 Every day he rode through the neighbouring fields and woods , and always returned home in the evening safe and well .
13 In this way many years passed , and the Prince grew to manhood , and hardly anyone remembered the Queen 's warning , though precautions were still taken , more from use and wont than for any other reason .
14 One day the Prince and his suite went out for a ride in a wood where his father sometimes held a hunt .
15 Their way led through a stream whose banks were overgrown with thick brushwood .
16 Just as the horsemen were about to ford the river , a hare , startled by the sound of the horses ' hoofs , started up from the grass and ran towards the thicket .
17 The young Prince pursued the little creature , and had almost overtaken it , when the girth of his saddle suddenly broke in two and he fell heavily to the ground .
18 No sooner had his foot touched the earth than he disappeared before the eyes of the horrified courtiers .
19 They sought for him far and near , but all in vain , and they were forced to recognise the power of the evil Fairy , against which the Queen had warned them on her death-bed .
20 The old King was much grieved when they brought him the news of his son 's disappearance , but as he could do nothing to free him from his fate , he gave himself up to an old age of grief and loneliness , cherishing at the same time the hope that some lucky chance might one day deliver the youth out of the hands of his enemy .
21 Hardly had the Prince touched the ground than he felt himself violently seized by an unseen XXXXX , and hurried away he knew not whither .	power		brothers|eyes|power|shame|time|village|warning|wolf|wolves|wood

1 For a moment the step-mother 's eyes were dazzled .
2 Then she called to her husband : ` Old man , yoke the horses at once into the sledge , and take my daughter to the same field and leave her on the same spot exactly ; ` and so the old man took the girl and left her beneath the same tree where he had parted from his daughter .
3 In a few minutes King Frost came past , and , looking at the girl , he said : ` Are you warm , maiden ? '
4 ` What a blind old fool you must be to ask such a question ! '
5 she answered angrily .
6 ` Ca n't you see that my hands and feet are nearly frozen ? '
7 Then King Frost sprang to and fro in front of her , questioning her , and getting only rude , rough words in reply , till at last he got very angry , and cracked his fingers , and gnashed his teeth , and froze her to death .
8 But in the hut her mother was waiting for her return , and as she grew impatient she said to her husband : ` Get out the horses , old man , to go and fetch her home ; but see that you are careful not to upset the sledge and lose the chest . '
9 But the doggie beneath the table began to bark , saying : ` Your daughter is frozen quite stiff and cold , And shall never have a chest full of gold . '
10 ` Do n't tell such wicked lies ! '
11 scolded the woman .
12 ` There 's a cake for you ; now say : `` HER daughter shall marry a mighty King . ''
13 At that moment the door flew open , and she rushed out to meet her daughter , and as she took her frozen body in her arms she too was chilled to death .
14 THE DEATH OF THE SUN-HERO -LRB- 27 -RRB- -LRB- 27 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends .
15 Von Wliolocki .
16 Many , many thousand years ago there lived a mighty King whom heaven had blessed with a clever and beautiful son .
17 When he was only ten years old the boy was cleverer than all the King 's counsellors put together , and when he was twenty he was the greatest hero in the whole kingdom .
18 His father could not make enough of his son , and always had him clothed in golden garments which shone and sparkled like the sun ; and his mother gave him a white horse , which never slept , and which flew like the wind .
19 All the people in the land loved him dearly , and called him the Sun-Hero , for they did not think his like existed under the sun .
20 Now it happened one night that both his parents had the same extraordinary dream .
21 They dreamt that a girl all dressed in red had come to them and said : ` If you wish that your son should really become the Sun-Hero in deed and not only in name , let him go out into the world and search for the Tree of the Sun , and when he has found it , let him pluck a golden apple from it and bring it XXXXX . '	home		body|boy|cake|daughter|door|heaven|home|land|maiden|moment

1 Yes , I 'll put him in there . ''
2 `` But you do n't really mean that you 're going to keep the horse , are you ? ''
3 protested Cynthia Ann .
4 `` Why , he is no good to you -- and think of the expense of feeding him ! ''
5 `` I 'll keep him for a while , '' said Miss Cordelia briskly .
6 `` As you say , there is the four-acre field .
7 It will keep him in eating for a while .
8 I always knew that field had a mission .
9 Poor John Drew !
10 I 'd like to oblige him for old times ' sake , as he says , although this is as crazy as anything he ever did .
11 But I have a plan .
12 Meanwhile , I ca n't feed Nap on geraniums . ''
13 Miss Cordelia always adapted herself quickly and calmly to new circumstances .
14 `` It is never any use to get in a stew about things , '' she was wont to say .
15 So now she untied Nap gingerly , with many rueful glances at her geraniums , and led him away to the field behind the house , where she tied him safely to a post with such an abundance of knots that there was small fear of his getting away .
16 When the mystified Cynthia Ann had returned home Miss Cordelia set about getting her tea and thinking over the plan that had come to her concerning her white elephant .
17 `` I can keep him for the summer , '' she said .
18 `` I 'll have to dispose of him in the fall for I 've no place to keep him in , and anyway I could n't afford to feed him .
19 I 'll see if I can borrow Mr. Griggs 's express wagon for Saturday afternoons , and if I can those poor factory children in my grade shall have a weekly treat or my name is not Cordelia Herry .
20 I 'm not so sure but that John Drew has done a good thing after all .
21 XXXXX John !	Poor		Mr.|Poor|field|horse|mission|plan|post|sake|times|use

1 At last the Dodo said , ` EVERYBODY has won , and all must have prizes . '
2 ` But who is to give the prizes ? '
3 quite a chorus of voices asked .
4 ` Why , SHE , of course , ' said the Dodo , pointing to Alice with one finger ; and the whole party at once crowded round her , calling out in a confused way , ` Prizes !
5 Prizes ! '
6 Alice had no idea what to do , and in despair she put her hand in her pocket , and pulled out a box of comfits , -LRB- luckily the salt water had not got into it -RRB- , and handed them round as prizes .
7 There was exactly one a-piece all round .
8 ` But she must have a prize herself , you know , ' said the Mouse .
9 ` Of course , ' the Dodo replied very gravely .
10 ` What else have you got in your pocket ? '
11 he went on , turning to Alice .
12 ` Only a thimble , ' said Alice sadly .
13 ` Hand it over here , ' said the Dodo .
14 Then they all crowded round her once more , while the Dodo solemnly presented the thimble , saying ` We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble ' ; and , when it had finished this short speech , they all cheered .
15 Alice thought the whole thing very absurd , but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh ; and , as she could not think of anything to say , she simply bowed , and took the thimble , looking as solemn as she could .
16 The next thing was to eat the comfits : this caused some noise and confusion , as the large birds complained that they could not taste theirs , and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back .
17 However , it was over at last , and they sat down again in a ring , and begged the Mouse to tell them something more .
18 ` You promised to tell me your history , you know , ' said Alice , ` and why it is you hate -- C and D , ' she added in a whisper , half afraid that it would be offended again .
19 ` Mine is a long and a sad tale ! '
20 said the Mouse , turning to Alice , and sighing .
21 ` It IS a long tail , certainly , ' said Alice , looking down with wonder at the XXXXX 's tail ; ` but why do you call it sad ? '	Mouse		C|Mouse|Prizes|confusion|laugh|pocket|prize|something|thing|way

1 Would not , could not , would not , could not , would not join the dance .
2 Would not , could not , would not , could not , could not join the dance . '
3 `` What matters it how far we go ? ''
4 his scaly friend replied .
5 `` There is another shore , you know , upon the other side .
6 The further off from England the nearer is to France -- Then turn not pale , beloved snail , but come and join the dance .
7 Will you , wo n't you , will you , wo n't you , will you join the dance ?
8 Will you , wo n't you , will you , wo n't you , wo n't you join the dance ? '' '
9 ` Thank you , it 's a very interesting dance to watch , ' said Alice , feeling very glad that it was over at last : ` and I do so like that curious song about the whiting ! '
10 ` Oh , as to the whiting , ' said the Mock Turtle , ` they -- you 've seen them , of course ? '
11 ` Yes , ' said Alice , ` I 've often seen them at dinn -- ' she checked herself hastily . '
12 I do n't know where Dinn may be , ' said the Mock Turtle , ` but if you 've seen them so often , of course you know what they 're like . ' '
13 I believe so , ' Alice replied thoughtfully .
14 ` They have their tails in their mouths -- and they 're all over crumbs . '
15 ` You 're wrong about the crumbs , ' said the Mock Turtle : ` crumbs would all wash off in the sea .
16 But they HAVE their tails in their mouths ; and the reason is -- ' here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes .
17 -- ` Tell her about the reason and all that , ' he said to the Gryphon .
18 ` The reason is , ' said the Gryphon , ` that they WOULD go with the lobsters to the dance .
19 So they got thrown out to sea .
20 So they had to fall a long way .
21 So they got their tails fast in their XXXXX .	mouths		dance|friend|mouths|reason|shore|side|snail|song|tails|way

1 And Martin spoke to the King , saying , ` King and royal father , I have suffered much at the hands of your daughter .
2 What punishment shall be dealt to her ? '
3 Then the mild King answered : ` Beloved Prince and son-in-law , if you love me , let your anger be turned to grace -- forgive my daughter , and restore her to your heart and favour . '
4 And Martin 's heart was softened and he forgave his wife , and they lived happily together ever after .
5 And his old mother came and lived with him , and he never parted with Schurka and Waska ; and I need hardly tell you that he never again let the ring out of his possession .
6 THE FLOWER QUEEN 'S DAUGHTER -LRB- 23 -RRB- -LRB- 23 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer .
7 Von Wliolocki .
8 A young Prince was riding one day through a meadow that stretched for miles in front of him , when he came to a deep open ditch .
9 He was turning aside to avoid it , when he heard the sound of someone crying in the ditch .
10 He dismounted from his horse , and stepped along in the direction the sound came from .
11 To his astonishment he found an old woman , who begged him to help her out of the ditch .
12 The Prince bent down and lifted her out of her living grave , asking her at the same time how she had managed to get there .
13 ` My son , ' answered the old woman , ' I am a very poor woman , and soon after midnight I set out for the neighbouring town in order to sell my eggs in the market on the following morning ; but I lost my way in the dark , and fell into this deep ditch , where I might have remained for ever but for your kindness . '
14 Then the Prince said to her , ` You can hardly walk ; I will put you on my horse and lead you home .
15 Where do you live ? '
16 ` Over there , at the edge of the forest in the little hut you see in the distance , ' replied the old woman .
17 The Prince lifted her on to his horse , and soon they reached the hut , where the old woman got down , and turning to the Prince said , ` Just wait a moment , and I will give you something . '
18 And she disappeared into her hut , but returned very soon and said , ` You are a mighty Prince , but at the same time you have a kind heart , which deserves to be rewarded .
19 Would you like to have the most beautiful woman in the world for your wife ? '
20 ` Most certainly I would , ' replied the Prince .
21 So the old woman continued , ` The most beautiful woman in the whole world is the XXXXX of the Queen of the Flowers , who has been captured by a dragon .	daughter		daughter|direction|distance|ditch|favour|hands|home|punishment|son-in-law|woman

1 Then the heart of the elder sunk , and he hastened towards him , crying , ` Brother , little brother , come to me ; ' but he , being half a wolf , only continued his song .
2 And the louder the elder called him , ` Brother , little brother , come to me , ' the swifter he fled after his brothers the wolves , and the heavier grew his skin , till , with a long howl , he vanished into the depths of the forest .
3 So , with shame and anguish in his soul , the elder brother went back to his village , and , with his sister , mourned the little boy and the broken promise till the end of his life .
4 THE GLASS AXE -LRB- 19 -RRB- -LRB- 19 -RRB- From the Hungarian .
5 Kletke .
6 There was once upon a time a King and Queen who had everything they could possibly wish for in this world except a child .
7 At last , after twelve years , the Queen gave birth to a son ; but she did not live long to enjoy her happiness , for on the following day she died .
8 But before her death she called her husband to her and said , ` Never let the child put his feet on the ground , for as soon as he does so he will fall into the power of a wicked Fairy , who will do him much harm . '
9 And these were the last words the poor Queen spoke .
10 The boy throve and grew big , and when he was too heavy for his nurse to carry , a chair was made for him on little wheels , in which he could wander through the palace gardens without help ; at other times he was carried about on a litter , and he was always carefully watched and guarded for fear he should at any time put his feet to the ground .
11 But as this sort of life was bad for his health , the doctors ordered him horse exercise , and he soon became a first-rate rider , and used to go out for long excursions on horseback , accompanied always by his father 's stud-groom and a numerous retinue .
12 Every day he rode through the neighbouring fields and woods , and always returned home in the evening safe and well .
13 In this way many years passed , and the Prince grew to manhood , and hardly anyone remembered the Queen 's warning , though precautions were still taken , more from use and wont than for any other reason .
14 One day the Prince and his suite went out for a ride in a wood where his father sometimes held a hunt .
15 Their way led through a stream whose banks were overgrown with thick brushwood .
16 Just as the horsemen were about to ford the river , a hare , startled by the sound of the horses ' hoofs , started up from the grass and ran towards the thicket .
17 The young Prince pursued the little creature , and had almost overtaken it , when the girth of his saddle suddenly broke in two and he fell heavily to the ground .
18 No sooner had his foot touched the earth than he disappeared before the eyes of the horrified courtiers .
19 They sought for him far and near , but all in vain , and they were forced to recognise the power of the evil Fairy , against which the Queen had warned them on her death-bed .
20 The old King was much grieved when they brought him the news of his son 's disappearance , but as he could do nothing to free him from his fate , he gave himself up to an old age of grief and loneliness , cherishing at the same time the hope that some lucky chance might one day deliver the youth out of the hands of his enemy .
21 Hardly had the Prince touched the XXXXX than he felt himself violently seized by an unseen power , and hurried away he knew not whither .	ground		boy|brothers|child|depths|ground|heart|howl|river|son|soul

1 Some king had built it long ago on a little hill .
2 You could still trace the stone causeways that led up to the ruined gates where the last splinters of wood hung to the worn , rusted hinges .
3 Trees had grown into and out of the walls ; the battlements were tumbled down and decayed , and wild creepers hung out of the windows of the towers on the walls in bushy hanging clumps .
4 A great roofless palace crowned the hill , and the marble of the courtyards and the fountains was split , and stained with red and green , and the very cobblestones in the courtyard where the king 's elephants used to live had been thrust up and apart by grasses and young trees .
5 From the palace you could see the rows and rows of roofless houses that made up the city looking like empty honeycombs filled with blackness ; the shapeless block of stone that had been an idol in the square where four roads met ; the pits and dimples at street corners where the public wells once stood , and the shattered domes of temples with wild figs sprouting on their sides .
6 The monkeys called the place their city , and pretended to despise the Jungle-People because they lived in the forest .
7 And yet they never knew what the buildings were made for nor how to use them .
8 They would sit in circles on the hall of the king 's council chamber , and scratch for fleas and pretend to be men ; or they would run in and out of the roofless houses and collect pieces of plaster and old bricks in a corner , and forget where they had hidden them , and fight and cry in scuffling crowds , and then break off to play up and down the terraces of the king 's garden , where they would shake the rose trees and the oranges in sport to see the fruit and flowers fall .
9 They explored all the passages and dark tunnels in the palace and the hundreds of little dark rooms , but they never remembered what they had seen and what they had not ; and so drifted about in ones and twos or crowds telling each other that they were doing as men did .
10 They drank at the tanks and made the water all muddy , and then they fought over it , and then they would all rush together in mobs and shout : `` There is no one in the jungle so wise and good and clever and strong and gentle as the Bandar-log . ''
11 Then all would begin again till they grew tired of the city and went back to the tree-tops , hoping the Jungle-People would notice them .
12 Mowgli , who had been trained under the Law of the Jungle , did not like or understand this kind of life .
13 The monkeys dragged him into the Cold Lairs late in the afternoon , and instead of going to sleep , as Mowgli would have done after a long journey , they joined hands and danced about and sang their foolish songs .
14 One of the monkeys made a speech and told his companions that Mowgli 's capture marked a new thing in the history of the Bandar-log , for Mowgli was going to show them how to weave sticks and canes together as a protection against rain and cold .
15 Mowgli picked up some creepers and began to work them in and out , and the monkeys tried to imitate ; but in a very few minutes they lost interest and began to pull their friends ' tails or jump up and down on all fours , coughing .
16 `` I wish to eat , '' said Mowgli .
17 `` I am a stranger in this part of the jungle .
18 Bring me food , or give me leave to hunt here . ''
19 Twenty or thirty monkeys bounded away to bring him nuts and wild pawpaws .
20 But they fell to fighting on the road , and it was too much trouble to go back with what was left of the fruit .
21 Mowgli was sore and angry as well as hungry , and he roamed through the empty XXXXX giving the Strangers ' Hunting Call from time to time , but no one answered him , and Mowgli felt that he had reached a very bad place indeed .	city		buildings|city|food|hill|jungle|marble|ones|stranger|tanks|trees

1 ` Did I not see her caught up into the air , in spite of cries which would have softened the heart of any one but the barbarian who has robbed me of her ?
2 The unfortunate girl is pining away in some unknown land , where perhaps no foot of man has ever trod , and I shall see her no more .
3 But go , generous stranger ; bring back Rosalie if you can , and live happy with her ever after in this country , of which I now declare you heir . '
4 Although the stranger 's name and rank were unknown to Rosalie 's father , he was really the son of the King of the Golden Isle , which had for capital a city that extended from one sea to another .
5 The walls , washed by the quiet waters , were covered with gold , which made one think of the yellow sands .
6 Above them was a rampart of orange and lemon trees , and all the streets were paved with gold .
7 The King of this beautiful island had one son , for whom a life of adventure had been foretold at his birth .
8 This so frightened his father and mother that in order to comfort them a Fairy , who happened to be present at the time , produced a little pebble which she told them to keep for the Prince till he grew up , as by putting it in his mouth he would become invisible , as long as he did not try to speak , for if he did the stone would lose all its virtue .
9 In this way the good fairy hoped that the Prince would be protected against all dangers .
10 No sooner did the Prince begin to grow out of boyhood than he longed to see if the other countries of the world were as splendid as the one in which he lived .
11 So , under pretence of visiting some small islands that belonged to his father , he set out .
12 But a frightful storm drove his ship on to unknown shores , where most of his followers were put to death by the savages , and the Prince himself only managed to escape by making use of his magic pebble .
13 By this means he passed through the midst of them unseen , and wandered on till he reached the coast , where he re-embarked on board his ship .
14 The first land he sighted was the Island of Roses , and he went at once to the court of the King , Rosalie 's father .
15 The moment his eyes beheld the Princess , he fell in love with her like everyone else .
16 He had already spent several months in this condition when the Prince of the Air whirled her away , to the grief and despair of every man on the island .
17 But sad though everybody was , the Prince of the Golden Isle was perfectly inconsolable , and he passed both days and nights in bemoaning his loss .
18 ` Alas ! '
19 he cried ; ` shall I never see my lovely Princess again ? '
20 Who knows where she may be , and what fairy may have her in his keeping ?
21 I am only a XXXXX , but I am strong in my love , and I will seek the whole world through till I find her . '	man		barbarian|despair|everyone|heir|island|islands|man|midst|pebble|savages

1 At length they reached a chamber where a table was spread with the most costly dishes .
2 At the table were placed two chairs , one of silver , the other of gold .
3 The maiden seated herself upon the golden chair , and offered the silver one to her companion .
4 They were served by maidens dressed in white , whose feet made no sound as they moved about , and not a word was spoken during the meal .
5 Afterwards the youth and the Witch-maiden conversed pleasantly together , until a woman , dressed in red , came in to remind them that it was bedtime .
6 The youth was now shown into another room , containing a silken bed with down cushions , where he slept delightfully , yet he seemed to hear a voice near his bed which repeated to him , ` Remember to give no blood ! '
7 The next morning the maiden asked him whether he would not like to stay with her always in this beautiful place , and as he did not answer immediately , she continued : ` You see how I always remain young and beautiful , and I am under no one 's orders , but can do just what I like , so that I have never thought of marrying before .
8 But from the moment I saw you I took a fancy to you , so if you agree , we might be married and might live together like princes , because I have great riches . '
9 The youth could not but be tempted with the beautiful maiden 's offer , but he remembered how the birds had called her the witch , and their warning always sounded in his ears .
10 Therefore he answered cautiously , ` Do not be angry , dear maiden , if I do not decide immediately on this important matter .
11 Give me a few days to consider before we come to an understanding . '
12 ` Why not ? '
13 answered the maiden .
14 ` Take some weeks to consider if you like , and take counsel with your own heart . '
15 And to make the time pass pleasantly , she took the youth over every part of her beautiful dwelling , and showed him all her splendid treasures .
16 But these treasures were all produced by enchantment , for the maiden could make anything she wished appear by the help of King Solomon 's signet ring ; only none of these things remained fixed ; they passed away like the wind without leaving a trace behind .
17 But the youth did not know this ; he thought they were all real .
18 One day the maiden took him into a secret chamber , where a little gold box was standing on a silver table .
19 Pointing to the box , she said , ` Here is my greatest treasure , whose like is not to be found in the whole world .
20 It is a precious gold ring .
21 When you marry me , I will give you this XXXXX as a marriage gift , and it will make you the happiest of mortal men .	ring		anything|dwelling|maidens|matter|morning|ring|time|trace|treasure|voice

1 The swallow flew down with Thumbelina , and set her upon one of the broad leaves .
2 But there , to her astonishment , she found a tiny little man sitting in the middle of the flower , as white and transparent as if he were made of glass ; he had the prettiest golden crown on his head , and the most beautiful wings on his shoulders ; he himself was no bigger than Thumbelina .
3 He was the spirit of the flower .
4 In each blossom there dwelt a tiny man or woman ; but this one was the King over the others .
5 ` How handsome he is ! '
6 whispered Thumbelina to the swallow .
7 The little Prince was very much frightened at the swallow , for in comparison with one so tiny as himself he seemed a giant .
8 But when he saw Thumbelina , he was delighted , for she was the most beautiful girl he had ever seen .
9 So he took his golden crown from off his head and put it on hers , asking her her name , and if she would be his wife , and then she would be Queen of all the flowers .
10 Yes !
11 he was a different kind of husband to the son of the toad and the mole with the black-velvet coat .
12 So she said ` Yes ' to the noble Prince .
13 And out of each flower came a lady and gentleman , each so tiny and pretty that it was a pleasure to see them .
14 Each brought Thumbelina a present , but the best of all was a beautiful pair of wings which were fastened on to her back , and now she too could fly from flower to flower .
15 They all wished her joy , and the swallow sat above in his nest and sang the wedding march , and that he did as well as he could ; but he was sad , because he was very fond of Thumbelina and did not want to be separated from her .
16 ` You shall not be called Thumbelina ! '
17 said the spirit of the flower to her ; ` that is an ugly name , and you are much too pretty for that .
18 We will call you May Blossom . '
19 ` Farewell , farewell ! '
20 said the little swallow with a heavy heart , and flew away to farther lands , far , far away , right back to Denmark .
21 There he had a little XXXXX above a window , where his wife lived , who can tell fairy-stories .	nest		astonishment|blossom|gentleman|girl|heart|joy|nest|pleasure|wife|wings

1 Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark , and thought it would be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation .
2 While she was trying to fix on one , the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire , and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby -- the fire-irons came first ; then followed a shower of saucepans , plates , and dishes .
3 The Duchess took no notice of them even when they hit her ; and the baby was howling so much already , that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not .
4 ` Oh , PLEASE mind what you 're doing ! '
5 cried Alice , jumping up and down in an agony of terror .
6 ` Oh , there goes his PRECIOUS nose ' ; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it , and very nearly carried it off .
7 ` If everybody minded their own business , ' the Duchess said in a hoarse growl , ` the world would go round a deal faster than it does . '
8 ` Which would NOT be an advantage , ' said Alice , who felt very glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge .
9 ` Just think of what work it would make with the day and night !
10 You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis -- ' ` Talking of axes , ' said the Duchess , ` chop off her head ! '
11 Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook , to see if she meant to take the hint ; but the cook was busily stirring the soup , and seemed not to be listening , so she went on again : ` Twenty-four hours , I THINK ; or is it twelve ?
12 I -- ' ` Oh , do n't bother ME , ' said the Duchess ; ' I never could abide figures ! '
13 And with that she began nursing her child again , singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so , and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line : ` Speak roughly to your little boy , And beat him when he sneezes : He only does it to annoy , Because he knows it teases . '
14 CHORUS .
15 -LRB- In which the cook and the baby joined -RRB- : -- ` Wow !
16 wow !
17 wow ! '
18 While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song , she kept tossing the baby violently up and down , and the poor little thing howled so , that Alice could hardly hear the words : -- ' I speak severely to my boy , I beat him when he sneezes ; For he can thoroughly enjoy The pepper when he pleases ! '
19 CHORUS .
20 ` Wow !
21 XXXXX !	wow		ME|earth|figures|growl|knowledge|nose|opportunity|song|work|wow

1 The Cat had no cousin , and had not been asked to be godmother .
2 She went straight to the church , slunk to the little pot of fat , began to lick it , and licked the top off .
3 Then she took a walk on the roofs of the town , looked at the view , stretched herself out in the sun , and licked her lips whenever she thought of the little pot of fat .
4 As soon as it was evening she went home again .
5 ` Ah , here you are again ! '
6 said the Mouse ; ` you must certainly have had an enjoyable day . '
7 ` It went off very well , ' answered the Cat .
8 ` What was the child 's name ? '
9 asked the Mouse .
10 ` Top Off , ' said the Cat drily .
11 ` Topoff ! '
12 echoed the Mouse , ` it is indeed a wonderful and curious name .
13 Is it in your family ? '
14 ` What is there odd about it ? '
15 said the Cat .
16 ` It is not worse than Breadthief , as your godchild is called . '
17 Not long after this another great longing came over the Cat .
18 She said to the Mouse , ` You must again be kind enough to look after the house alone , for I have been asked a second time to stand godmother , and as this child has a white ring round its neck , I can not refuse . '
19 The kind Mouse agreed , but the Cat slunk under the town wall to the church , and ate up half of the pot of fat .
20 ` Nothing tastes better , ' said she , ` than what one eats by oneself , ' and she was very much pleased with her day 's work .
21 When she came home the Mouse asked , ` What was this XXXXX called ? '	child		Cat|child|church|family|lips|longing|name|roofs|town|view

1 Never before had so grand a wedding been seen , and there was so much food and wine that even the glutton and the thirsty comrade had enough to eat and drink .
2 THE SNOW-DAUGHTER AND THE FIRE-SON -LRB- 25 -RRB- -LRB- 25 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends .
3 Von Wliolocki .
4 There was once upon a time a man and his wife , and they had no children , which was a great grief to them .
5 One winter 's day , when the sun was shining brightly , the couple were standing outside their cottage , and the woman was looking at all the little icicles which hung from the roof .
6 She sighed , and turning to her husband said , ' I wish I had as many children as there are icicles hanging there . '
7 ` Nothing would please me more either , ' replied her husband .
8 Then a tiny icicle detached itself from the roof , and dropped into the woman 's mouth , who swallowed it with a smile , and said , ` Perhaps I shall give birth to a snow child now ! '
9 Her husband laughed at his wife 's strange idea , and they went back into the house .
10 But after a short time the woman gave birth to a little girl , who was as white as snow and as cold as ice .
11 If they brought the child anywhere near the fire , it screamed loudly till they put it back into some cool place .
12 The little maid throve wonderfully , and in a few months she could run about and speak .
13 But she was not altogether easy to bring up , and gave her parents much trouble and anxiety , for all summer she insisted on spending in the cellar , and in the winter she would sleep outside in the snow , and the colder it was the happier she seemed to be .
14 Her father and mother called her simply ` Our Snow-daughter , ' and this name stuck to her all her life .
15 One day her parents sat by the fire , talking over the extraordinary behaviour of their daughter , who was disporting herself in the snowstorm that raged outside .
16 The woman sighed deeply and said , ' I wish I had given birth to a Fire-son ! '
17 As she said these words , a spark from the big wood fire flew into the woman 's lap , and she said with a laugh , ` Now perhaps I shall give birth to a Fire-son ! '
18 The man laughed at his wife 's words , and thought it was a good joke .
19 But he ceased to think it a joke when his wife shortly afterwards gave birth to a boy , who screamed lustily till he was put quite close to the fire , and who nearly yelled himself into a fit if the Snow-daughter came anywhere near him .
20 The Snow-daughter herself avoided him as much as she could , and always crept into a corner as far away from him as possible .
21 The parents called the boy simply ` Our Fire-son , ' a XXXXX which stuck to him all his life .	name		Nothing|behaviour|birth|day|grief|icicle|maid|mother|name|wine

1 Kala Nag will obey none but me , so I must go with him into the Keddah , but he is only a fighting elephant , and he does not help to rope them .
2 So I sit at my ease , as befits a mahout , -- not a mere hunter , -- a mahout , I say , and a man who gets a pension at the end of his service .
3 Is the family of Toomai of the Elephants to be trodden underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah ?
4 Bad one !
5 Wicked one !
6 Worthless son !
7 Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ears , and see that there are no thorns in his feet .
8 Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild hunter -- a follower of elephant 's foot tracks , a jungle bear .
9 Bah !
10 Shame !
11 Go ! ''
12 Little Toomai went off without saying a word , but he told Kala Nag all his grievances while he was examining his feet .
13 `` No matter , '' said Little Toomai , turning up the fringe of Kala Nag 's huge right ear .
14 `` They have said my name to Petersen Sahib , and perhaps -- and perhaps -- and perhaps -- who knows ?
15 Hai !
16 That is a big thorn that I have pulled out ! ''
17 The next few days were spent in getting the elephants together , in walking the newly caught wild elephants up and down between a couple of tame ones to prevent them giving too much trouble on the downward march to the plains , and in taking stock of the blankets and ropes and things that had been worn out or lost in the forest .
18 Petersen Sahib came in on his clever she-elephant Pudmini ; he had been paying off other camps among the hills , for the season was coming to an end , and there was a native clerk sitting at a table under a tree , to pay the drivers their wages .
19 As each man was paid he went back to his elephant , and joined the line that stood ready to start .
20 The catchers , and hunters , and beaters , the men of the regular Keddah , who stayed in the jungle year in and year out , sat on the backs of the elephants that belonged to Petersen Sahib 's permanent force , or leaned against the trees with their guns across their arms , and made fun of the drivers who were going away , and laughed when the newly caught elephants broke the line and ran about .
21 Big Toomai went up to the XXXXX with Little Toomai behind him , and Machua Appa , the head tracker , said in an undertone to a friend of his , `` There goes one piece of good elephant stuff at least .	clerk		Elephants|Shame|clerk|drivers|family|forest|pension|son|things|word

1 And she said to her husband : ` Old man , you had better go out into the fields and find your daughter 's body and bury her . '
2 Just as the old man was leaving the house the little dog under the table began to bark , saying : ` YOUR daughter shall live to be your delight ; HER daughter shall die this very night . '
3 ` Hold your tongue , you foolish beast ! '
4 scolded the woman .
5 ` There 's a pancake for you , but you must say : `` HER daughter shall have much silver and gold ; HIS daughter is frozen quite stiff and cold . '' '
6 But the doggie ate up the pancake and barked , saying : ` His daughter shall wear a crown on her head ; Her daughter shall die unwooed , unwed . '
7 Then the old woman tried to coax the doggie with more pancakes and to terrify it with blows , but he barked on , always repeating the same words .
8 And suddenly the door creaked and flew open , and a great heavy chest was pushed in , and behind it came the step-daughter , radiant and beautiful , in a dress all glittering with silver and gold .
9 For a moment the step-mother 's eyes were dazzled .
10 Then she called to her husband : ` Old man , yoke the horses at once into the sledge , and take my daughter to the same field and leave her on the same spot exactly ; ` and so the old man took the girl and left her beneath the same tree where he had parted from his daughter .
11 In a few minutes King Frost came past , and , looking at the girl , he said : ` Are you warm , maiden ? '
12 ` What a blind old fool you must be to ask such a question ! '
13 she answered angrily .
14 ` Ca n't you see that my hands and feet are nearly frozen ? '
15 Then King Frost sprang to and fro in front of her , questioning her , and getting only rude , rough words in reply , till at last he got very angry , and cracked his fingers , and gnashed his teeth , and froze her to death .
16 But in the hut her mother was waiting for her return , and as she grew impatient she said to her husband : ` Get out the horses , old man , to go and fetch her home ; but see that you are careful not to upset the sledge and lose the chest . '
17 But the doggie beneath the table began to bark , saying : ` Your daughter is frozen quite stiff and cold , And shall never have a chest full of gold . '
18 ` Do n't tell such wicked lies ! '
19 scolded the woman .
20 ` There 's a cake for you ; now say : `` HER daughter shall marry a mighty King . ''
21 At that moment the door flew open , and she rushed out to meet her XXXXX , and as she took her frozen body in her arms she too was chilled to death .	daughter		body|daughter|eyes|fields|girl|hut|man|moment|mother|woman

1 `` Nonsense ! ''
2 he said .
3 `` Your friends are making as much noise as ever .
4 You must have seen old Kerick polishing off a drove .
5 He 's done that for thirty years . ''
6 `` It 's horrible , '' said Kotick , backing water as a wave went over him , and steadying himself with a screw stroke of his flippers that brought him all standing within three inches of a jagged edge of rock .
7 `` Well done for a yearling ! ''
8 said the Sea Lion , who could appreciate good swimming .
9 `` I suppose it is rather awful from your way of looking at it , but if you seals will come here year after year , of course the men get to know of it , and unless you can find an island where no men ever come you will always be driven . ''
10 `` Is n't there any such island ? ''
11 began Kotick .
12 `` I 've followed the poltoos -LSB- the halibut -RSB- for twenty years , and I ca n't say I 've found it yet .
13 But look here -- you seem to have a fondness for talking to your betters -- suppose you go to Walrus Islet and talk to Sea Vitch .
14 He may know something .
15 Do n't flounce off like that .
16 It 's a six-mile swim , and if I were you I should haul out and take a nap first , little one . ''
17 Kotick thought that that was good advice , so he swam round to his own beach , hauled out , and slept for half an hour , twitching all over , as seals will .
18 Then he headed straight for Walrus Islet , a little low sheet of rocky island almost due northeast from Novastoshnah , all ledges and rock and gulls ' nests , where the walrus herded by themselves .
19 He landed close to old Sea Vitch -- the big , ugly , bloated , pimpled , fat-necked , long-tusked walrus of the North Pacific , who has no manners except when he is asleep -- as he was then , with his hind flippers half in and half out of the surf .
20 `` Wake up ! ''
21 barked Kotick , for the gulls were making a great XXXXX .	noise		Walrus|beach|island|ledges|manners|nap|noise|something|water|wave

1 The other replied , ' I do not know , certainly , where she is at present , but in three nights from now she will come to the spring to wash her face , as she does every month when the moon is full , in order that she may never grow old nor wrinkled , but may always keep the bloom of youth . '
2 ` Well , ' said the first bird , ` the spring is not far from here .
3 Shall we go and see how it is she does it ? '
4 ` Willingly , if you like , ' said the other .
5 The youth immediately resolved to follow the birds to the spring , only two things made him uneasy : first , lest he might be asleep when the birds went , and secondly , lest he might lose sight of them , since he had not wings to carry him along so swiftly .
6 He was too tired to keep awake all night , yet his anxiety prevented him from sleeping soundly , and when with the earliest dawn he looked up to the tree-top , he was glad to see his feathered companions still asleep with their heads under their wings .
7 He ate his breakfast , and waited until the birds should start , but they did not leave the place all day .
8 They hopped about from one tree to another looking for food , all day long until the evening , when they went back to their old perch to sleep .
9 The next day the same thing happened , but on the third morning one bird said to the other , ` To-day we must go to the spring to see the Witch-maiden wash her face . '
10 They remained on the tree till noon ; then they flew away and went towards the south .
11 The young man 's heart beat with anxiety lest he should lose sight of his guides , but he managed to keep the birds in view until they again perched upon a tree .
12 The young man ran after them until he was quite exhausted and out of breath , and after three short rests the birds at length reached a small open space in the forest , on the edge of which they placed themselves on the top of a high tree .
13 When the youth had overtaken them , he saw that there was a clear spring in the middle of the space .
14 He sat down at the foot of the tree upon which the birds were perched , and listened attentively to what they were saying to each other .
15 ` The sun is not down yet , ' said the first bird ; ` we must wait yet awhile till the moon rises and the maiden comes to the spring .
16 Do you think she will see that young man sitting under the tree ? '
17 ` Nothing is likely to escape her eyes , certainly not a young man , said the other bird .
18 ` Will the youth have the sense not to let himself be caught in her toils ? '
19 ` We will wait , ' said the first bird , ` and see how they get on together . '
20 The evening light had quite faded , and the full moon was already shining down upon the forest , when the young man heard a slight rustling sound .
21 After a few moments there came out of the forest a XXXXX , gliding over the grass so lightly that her feet seemed scarcely to touch the ground , and stood beside the spring .	maiden		Nothing|breath|dawn|face|light|maiden|man|middle|perch|place

1 This did not seem to encourage the witness at all : he kept shifting from one foot to the other , looking uneasily at the Queen , and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter .
2 Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation , which puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was : she was beginning to grow larger again , and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court ; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for her . '
3 I wish you would n't squeeze so . '
4 said the Dormouse , who was sitting next to her . '
5 I can hardly breathe . ' '
6 I ca n't help it , ' said Alice very meekly : ` I 'm growing . '
7 ` You 've no right to grow here , ' said the Dormouse .
8 ` Do n't talk nonsense , ' said Alice more boldly : ` you know you 're growing too . '
9 ` Yes , but I grow at a reasonable pace , ' said the Dormouse : ` not in that ridiculous fashion . '
10 And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court .
11 All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter , and , just as the Dormouse crossed the court , she said to one of the officers of the court , ` Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert ! '
12 on which the wretched Hatter trembled so , that he shook both his shoes off .
13 ` Give your evidence , ' the King repeated angrily , ` or I 'll have you executed , whether you 're nervous or not . '
14 ` I 'm a poor man , your Majesty , ' the Hatter began , in a trembling voice , ' -- and I had n't begun my tea -- not above a week or so -- and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin -- and the twinkling of the tea -- ' ` The twinkling of the what ? '
15 said the King .
16 ` It began with the tea , ' the Hatter replied .
17 ` Of course twinkling begins with a T ! '
18 said the King sharply .
19 ` Do you take me for a dunce ?
20 Go on ! '
21 ` I 'm a poor XXXXX , ' the Hatter went on , ` and most things twinkled after that -- only the March Hare said -- ' ' I did n't ! '	man		confusion|man|officers|piece|sensation|shoes|side|thoughts|time|twinkling

1 The Prince reached the palace in safety , but was so dazzled at first by the Princess 's beauty , which far surpassed his expectations , that he was quite dumb for a time .
2 The Princess was surprised and anxious , and fearing the parrot , who was her greatest comfort , had fallen ill , she took him in her hand and caressed him .
3 This soon reassured the Prince , and encouraged him to play his part well , and he began to say a thousand agreeable things which charmed the Princess .
4 Presently the King appeared , and the parrot noticed with joy how much he was disliked .
5 As soon as the King left , the Princess retired to her dressing-room , the parrot flew after her and overheard her lamentations at the continued persecutions of the King , who had pressed her to consent to their marriage .
6 The parrot said so many clever and tender things to comfort her that she began to doubt whether this could indeed be her own parrot .
7 When he saw her well-disposed towards him , he exclaimed : ` Madam , I have a most important secret to confide to you , and I beg you not to be alarmed by what I am about to say .
8 I am here on behalf of the Queen your mother , with the object of delivering your Highness ; to prove which , behold this portrait which she gave me herself . '
9 So saying he drew forth the miniature from under his wing .
10 The Princess 's surprise was great , but after what she had seen and heard it was impossible not to indulge in hope , for she had recognised the likeness of herself which her mother always wore .
11 The parrot , finding she was not much alarmed , told her who he was , all that her mother had promised him and the help he had already received from a Fairy who had assured him that she would give him means to transport the Princess to her mother 's arms .
12 When he found her listening attentively to him , he implored the Princess to allow him to resume his natural shape .
13 She did not speak , so he drew a feather from his wing , and she beheld before her a Prince of such surpassing beauty that it was impossible not to hope that she might owe her liberty to so charming a person .
14 Meantime the Fairy had prepared a chariot , to which she harnessed two powerful eagles ; then placing the cage , with the parrot in it , she charged the bird to conduct it to the window of the Princess 's dressing-room .
15 This was done in a few minutes , and the Princess , stepping into the chariot with the Prince , was delighted to find her parrot again .
16 As they rose through the air the Princess remarked a figure mounted on an eagle 's back flying in front of the chariot .
17 She was rather alarmed , but the Prince reassured her , telling her it was the good Fairy to whom she owed so much , and who was now conducting her in safety to her mother .
18 That same morning the King woke suddenly from a troubled sleep .
19 He had dreamt that the Princess was being carried off from him , and , transforming himself into an eagle , he flew to the palace .
20 When he failed to find her he flew into a terrible rage , and hastened home to consult his books , by which means he discovered that it was his son who had deprived him of this precious treasure .
21 Immediately he took the shape of a harpy , and , filled with XXXXX , was determined to devour his son , and even the Princess too , if only he could overtake them .	rage		bird|cage|chariot|help|liberty|likeness|mother|person|rage|shape

1 Chester would have chosen death by starvation before he would have sought for employment in a liquor saloon .
2 But there certainly did not seem room for him anywhere else .
3 Nobody wanted a boy .
4 The answer to his question was invariably `` No . ''
5 As the day wore on , Chester 's hopes and courage went down to zero , but he still tramped doggedly about .
6 He would be thorough , at least .
7 Surely somewhere in this big place , where everyone seemed so busy , there must be something for him to do .
8 Once there seemed a chance of success .
9 He had gone into a big provision store and asked the clerk behind the counter if they wanted a boy .
10 `` Well , we do , '' said the clerk , looking him over critically , `` but I hardly think you 'll fill the bill .
11 However , come in and see the boss . ''
12 He took Chester into a dark , grimy little inner office where a fat , stubby man was sitting before a desk with his feet upon it .
13 `` Hey ?
14 What ! ''
15 he said when the clerk explained .
16 `` Looking for the place ?
17 Why , sonny , you 're not half big enough . ''
18 `` Oh , I 'm a great deal bigger than I look , '' cried Chester breathlessly .
19 `` That is , sir -- I mean I 'm ever so much stronger than I look .
20 I 'll work hard , sir , ever so hard -- and I 'll grow . ''
21 The XXXXX , stubby man roared with laughter .	fat		boss|employment|everyone|fat|hopes|office|question|sir|something|sonny

1 Then the ship 's crew returned home , and the same thing happened yearly until many years had passed .
2 Now the King of this unhappy country was growing old , and so was the Queen , and they had no children .
3 One day the Queen was sitting at the window weeping bitterly because she was childless , and knew that the crown would therefore pass to strangers after the King 's death .
4 Suddenly a little old woman appeared before her , holding an apple in her hand , and said , ` Why do you weep , my Queen , and what makes you so unhappy ? '
5 ` Alas , good mother , ' answered the Queen , ' I am unhappy because I have no children . '
6 ` Is that what vexes you ? '
7 said the old woman .
8 ` Listen to me .
9 I am a nun from the Spinning Convent , -LRB- 10 -RRB- and my mother when she died left me this apple .
10 Whoever eats this apple shall have a child . '
11 -LRB- 10 -RRB- Convent Gnothi .
12 The Queen gave money to the old woman , and bought the apple from her .
13 Then she peeled it , ate it , and threw the rind out of the window , and it so happened that a mare that was running loose in the court below ate up the rind .
14 After a time the Queen had a little boy , and the mare also had a male foal .
15 The boy and the foal grew up together and loved each other like brothers .
16 In course of time the King died , and so did the Queen , and their son , who was now nineteen years old , was left alone .
17 One day , when he and his horse were talking together , the Horse said to him , ` Listen to me , for I love you and wish for your good and that of the country .
18 If you go on every year sending twelve youths and twelve maidens to the King of the Beasts , your country will very soon be ruined .
19 Mount upon my back : I will take you to a woman who can direct you how to kill the Seven-headed Serpent . '
20 Then the youth mounted his horse , who carried him far away to a mountain which was hollow , for in its side was a great underground cavern .
21 In the cavern sat an old XXXXX spinning .	woman		Convent|children|country|crew|death|foal|mare|thing|woman|youths

1 And gladly would these two have walked thus for ever , but in the murmur of the wind he heard the Master of Life saying to him , ` Return whither you came , for I have work for you to do , and your people need you , and for many years you shall rule over them .
2 At the gate my messenger awaits you , and you shall take again your body which you left behind , and he will show you what you are to do .
3 Listen to him , and have patience , and in time to come you shall rejoin her whom you must now leave , for she is accepted , and will remain ever young and beautiful , as when I called her hence from the Land of Snows . '
4 THE WHITE DUCK Once upon a time a great and powerful King married a lovely Princess .
5 No couple were ever so happy ; but before their honeymoon was over they were forced to part , for the King had to go on a warlike expedition to a far country , and leave his young wife alone at home .
6 Bitter were the tears she shed , while her husband sought in vain to soothe her with words of comfort and counsel , warning her , above all things , never to leave the castle , to hold no intercourse with strangers , to beware of evil counsellors , and especially to be on her guard against strange women .
7 And the Queen promised faithfully to obey her royal lord and master in these four matters .
8 So when the King set out on his expedition she shut herself up with her ladies in her own apartments , and spent her time in spinning and weaving , and in thinking of her royal husband .
9 Often she was very sad and lonely , and it happened that one day while she was seated at the window , letting salt tears drop on her work , an old woman , a kind , homely-looking old body , stepped up to the window , and , leaning upon her crutch , addressed the Queen in friendly , flattering tones , saying : ` Why are you sad and cast down , fair Queen ?
10 You should not mope all day in your rooms , but should come out into the green garden , and hear the birds sing with joy among the trees , and see the butterflies fluttering above the flowers , and hear the bees and insects hum , and watch the sunbeams chase the dew-drops through the rose-leaves and in the lily-cups .
11 All the brightness outside would help to drive away your cares , O Queen . '
12 For long the Queen resisted her coaxing words , remembering the promise she had given the King , her husband ; but at last she thought to herself : After all , what harm would it do if I were to go into the garden for a short time and enjoy myself among the trees and flowers , and the singing birds and fluttering butterflies and humming insects , and look at the dew-drops hiding from the sunbeams in the hearts of the roses and lilies , and wander about in the sunshine , instead of remaining all day in this room ?
13 For she had no idea that the kind-looking old woman leaning on her crutch was in reality a wicked witch , who envied the Queen her good fortune , and was determined to ruin her .
14 And so , in all ignorance , the Queen followed her out into the garden and listened to her smooth , flattering words .
15 Now , in the middle of the garden there was a pond of water , clear as crystal , and the old woman said to the Queen : ` The day is so warm , and the sun 's rays so scorching , that the water in the pond looks very cool and inviting .
16 Would you not like to bathe in it , fair Queen ? '
17 ` No , I think not , ' answered the Queen ; but the next moment she regretted her words , and thought to herself : Why should n't I bathe in that cool , fresh water ?
18 No harm could come of it .
19 And , so saying , she slipped off her robes and stepped into the water .
20 But scarcely had her tender feet touched the cool ripples when she felt a great shove on her shoulders , and the wicked witch had pushed her into the deep water , exclaiming : ` Swim henceforth , White Duck ! '
21 And the witch herself assumed the form of the Queen , and decked herself out in the royal XXXXX , and sat among the Court ladies , awaiting the King 's return .	robes		apartments|couple|harm|idea|ignorance|murmur|patience|robes|water|window

1 Hadvor made no sign , but waited till he had fallen asleep , and then crept out and burned the lion 's skin , which he had left outside .
2 Then she went back into the cave and wakened Hermod , and they had a most joyful meeting .
3 In the morning they talked over their plans , and were most at a loss to know how to get out of the island .
4 Hadvor told Hermod her dream , and said she suspected there was some one in the island who would be able to help them .
5 Hermod said he knew of a Witch there , who was very ready to help anyone , and that the only plan was to go to her .
6 So they went to the Witch 's cave , and found her there with her fifteen young sons , and asked her to help them to get to the mainland .
7 ` There are other things easier than that , ' said she , ` for the Giant that was buried will be waiting for you , and will attack you on the way , as he has turned himself into a big whale .
8 I shall lend you a boat , however , and if you meet the whale and think your lives are in danger , then you can name me by name . '
9 They thanked her greatly for her help and advice , and set out from the island , but on the way they saw a huge fish coming towards them , with great splashing and dashing of waves .
10 They were sure of what it was , and thought they had as good reason as ever they would have to call on the Witch , and so they did .
11 The next minute they saw coming after them another huge whale , followed by fifteen smaller ones .
12 All of these swam past the boat and went on to meet the whale .
13 There was a fierce battle then , and the sea became so stormy that it was not very easy to keep the boat from being filled by the waves .
14 After this fight had gone on for some time , they saw that the sea was dyed with blood ; the big whale and the fifteen smaller ones disappeared , and they got to land safe and sound .
15 Now the story goes back to the King 's hall , where strange things had happened in the meantime .
16 The Queen and her daughter had disappeared , but a rat and a mouse were always fighting with each other there .
17 Ever so many people had tried to drive them away , but no one could manage it .
18 Thus some time went on , while the King was almost beside himself with sorrow and care for the loss of his Queen , and because these monsters destroyed all mirth in the hall .
19 One evening , however , while they all sat dull and down-hearted , in came Hermod with a sword by his side , and saluted the King , who received him with the greatest joy , as if he had come back from the dead .
20 Before Hermod sat down , however , he went to where the rat and the mouse were fighting , and cut them in two with his sword .
21 All were astonished then by seeing two witches lying dead on the floor of the XXXXX .	hall		Witch|hall|help|joy|lion|mainland|meantime|minute|story|swam

1 When left to himself he also rose and walked out .
2 Turning away from the station , he struck briskly into the Greenvale road .
3 About three miles from the station he halted before a house built close to the road .
4 It was old-fashioned , but large and comfortable-looking , with big barns in the rear and an orchard on the left slope .
5 The house itself was in the shadow of the firs , but the yard lay out in the moonlight and the strange visitor did not elect to cross it .
6 Instead , he turned aside into the shadow of the trees around the garden and , leaning against the old rail fence , gave himself up to contemplation of some kind .
7 There was a light in the kitchen .
8 The window-blind was not down and he had a fairly good view of the room .
9 The only visible occupant was a grey-haired old man sitting by the table , reading from a large open volume before him .
10 The stranger whistled softly .
11 `` That 's old Stephen -- reading the Bible same as ever , by all that 's holy !
12 He has n't changed much except that he 's got mighty grey .
13 He must be close on to seventy .
14 It 's a shame to turn an old man like him out of house and home .
15 But Joe Moore always was a genuine skinflint . ''
16 He drew himself softly up and sat on the fence .
17 He saw old Stephen Strong close his book , place his spectacles on it , and kneel down by his chair .
18 The old man remained on his knees for some time and then , taking up his candle , left the kitchen .
19 The man on the fence still sat there .
20 Truth to tell , he was chuckling to himself as he recalled all the mischief he had done in the old days -- the doubtful jokes , tricks , and escapades he had gone through with .
21 He could not help remembering at the same XXXXX how patient old Stephen Strong had always been with him .	time		fence|house|light|miles|road|room|time|tricks|view|yard

1 he sighed ; ` what in the world shall I do ?
2 Why , it would take us a year , possibly our whole lives , to eat up twelve oxen and twelve tons of bread . '
3 ` Never fear , ' said the glutton .
4 ` It will scarcely be enough for me , I 'm so hungry . '
5 So when the courtier arrived with the royal message he was told to take back word to the King that his orders should be obeyed .
6 Then twelve roasted oxen and twelve tons of bread were brought alongside of the ship , and at one sitting the glutton had devoured it all . '
7 I call that a small meal , ' he said . '
8 I wish they 'd brought me some more . '
9 Next , the King ordered that forty casks of wine , containing forty gallons each , were to be drunk up on the spot by the Simpleton and his party .
10 When these words were overheard by the sharp-eared comrade and repeated to the Simpleton , he was in despair .
11 ` Alas , alas ! '
12 he exclaimed ; ` what is to be done ?
13 It would take us a year , possibly our whole lives , to drink so much . '
14 ` Never fear , ' said his thirsty comrade .
15 ` I 'll drink it all up at a gulp , see if I do n't . '
16 And sure enough , when the forty casks of wine containing forty gallons each were brought alongside of the ship , they disappeared down the thirsty comrade 's throat in no time ; and when they were empty he remarked : ` Why , I 'm still thirsty .
17 I should have been glad of two more casks . '
18 Then the King took counsel with himself and sent an order to the Simpleton that he was to have a bath , in a bath-room at the royal palace , and after that the betrothal should take place .
19 Now the bath-room was built of iron , and the King gave orders that it was to be heated to such a pitch that it would suffocate the Simpleton .
20 And so when the poor silly youth entered the room , he discovered that the iron walls were red hot .
21 But , fortunately , his comrade with the straw on his back had entered behind him , and when the door was shut upon them he scattered the straw about , and suddenly the red-hot walls cooled down , and it became so very cold that the XXXXX could scarcely bear to take a bath , and all the water in the room froze .	Simpleton		Simpleton|counsel|courtier|gulp|iron|message|orders|pitch|words|world

1 Their words rejoiced Ferko 's heart , and he waited impatiently till evening should come and he could rub the precious dew on his sightless eyes .
2 At last it began to grow dusk , and the sun sank behind the mountains ; gradually it became cooler on the hill , and the grass grew wet with dew .
3 Then Ferko buried his face in the ground till his eyes were damp with dewdrops , and in a moment he saw clearer than he had ever done in his life before .
4 The moon was shining brightly , and lighted him to the lake where he could bathe his poor broken legs .
5 Then Ferko crawled to the edge of the lake and dipped his limbs in the water .
6 No sooner had he done so than his legs felt as sound and strong as they had been before , and Ferko thanked the kind fate that had led him to the hill where he had overheard the ravens ' conversation .
7 He filled a bottle with the healing water , and then continued his journey in the best of spirits .
8 He had not gone far before he met a wolf , who was limping disconsolately along on three legs , and who on perceiving Ferko began to howl dismally .
9 ` My good friend , ' said the youth , ` be of good cheer , for I can soon heal your leg , ' and with these words he poured some of the precious water over the wolf 's paw , and in a minute the animal was springing about sound and well on all fours .
10 The grateful creature thanked his benefactor warmly , and promised Ferko to do him a good turn if he should ever need it .
11 Ferko continued his way till he came to a ploughed field .
12 Here he noticed a little mouse creeping wearily along on its hind paws , for its front paws had both been broken in a trap .
13 Ferko felt so sorry for the little beast that he spoke to it in the most friendly manner , and washed its small paws with the healing water .
14 In a moment the mouse was sound and whole , and after thanking the kind physician it scampered away over the ploughed furrows .
15 Ferko again proceeded on his journey , but he had n't gone far before a queen bee flew against him , trailing one wing behind her , which had been cruelly torn in two by a big bird .
16 Ferko was no less willing to help her than he had been to help the wolf and the mouse , so he poured some healing drops over the wounded wing .
17 On the spot the queen bee was cured , and turning to Ferko she said , ' I am most grateful for your kindness , and shall reward you some day . '
18 And with these words she flew away humming , gaily .
19 Then Ferko wandered on for many a long day , and at length reached a strange kingdom .
20 Here , he thought to himself , he might as well go straight to the palace and offer his services to the King of the country , for he had heard that the King 's daughter was as beautiful as the day .
21 So he went to the royal XXXXX , and as he entered the door the first people he saw were his two brothers who had so shamefully ill-treated him .	palace		beast|dewdrops|edge|fours|ground|heart|life|palace|sun|youth

1 said the field-mouse , ` for our neighbour has proposed for you !
2 What a piece of fortune for a poor child like you !
3 Now you must set to work at your linen for your dowry , for nothing must be lacking if you are to become the wife of our neighbour , the mole ! '
4 Thumbelina had to spin all day long , and every evening the mole visited her , and told her that when the summer was over the sun would not shine so hot ; now it was burning the earth as hard as a stone .
5 Yes , when the summer had passed , they would keep the wedding .
6 But she was not at all pleased about it , for she did not like the stupid mole .
7 Every morning when the sun was rising , and every evening when it was setting , she would steal out of the house-door , and when the breeze parted the ears of corn so that she could see the blue sky through them , she thought how bright and beautiful it must be outside , and longed to see her dear swallow again .
8 But he never came ; no doubt he had flown away far into the great green wood .
9 By the autumn Thumbelina had finished the dowry .
10 ` In four weeks you will be married ! '
11 said the field-mouse ; ` do n't be obstinate , or I shall bite you with my sharp white teeth !
12 You will get a fine husband !
13 The King himself has not such a velvet coat .
14 His store-room and cellar are full , and you should be thankful for that . '
15 Well , the wedding-day arrived .
16 The mole had come to fetch Thumbelina to live with him deep down under the ground , never to come out into the warm sun again , for that was what he did n't like .
17 The poor little girl was very sad ; for now she must say good-bye to the beautiful sun .
18 ` Farewell , bright sun ! '
19 she cried , stretching out her arms towards it , and taking another step outside the house ; for now the corn had been reaped , and only the dry stubble was left standing .
20 ` Farewell , farewell ! '
21 she said , and put her XXXXX round a little red flower that grew there .	arms		arms|cellar|corn|farewell|ground|linen|step|stone|summer|teeth

1 He therefore went to the royal castle , obtained an audience of the Princess , and told her about the strange things he had seen in the underground palace .
2 No sooner had he finished than the Princess asked him whether he could find the way to that palace .
3 ` Yes , ' he answered , ` certainly . '
4 And now she desired him to guide her thither at once .
5 The old man did so , and when they came to the palace he hid her behind the great picture and advised her to keep quite still , and he placed himself behind the picture also .
6 Presently the eagles came flying in , and changed themselves into young men , and in a moment the Princess recognised her husband amongst them all , and tried to come out of her hiding-place ; but the old man held her back .
7 The youths seated themselves at the table ; and now the Prince said again , while he took up the cup of wine : ' A health to my dearest lady , Long may she live and well !
8 But a curse on the cruel mother That burnt my golden shell ! '
9 Then the Princess could restrain herself no longer , but ran forward and threw her arms round her husband .
10 And immediately he knew her again , and said : ` Do you remember how I told you that day that you would betray me ?
11 Now you see that I spoke the truth .
12 But all that bad time is past .
13 Now listen to me : I must still remain enchanted for three months .
14 Will you stay here with me till that time is over ? '
15 So the Princess stayed with him , and said to the old man , ` Go back to the castle and tell my parents that I am staying here . '
16 Her parents were very much vexed when the old man came back and told them this , but as soon as the three months of the Prince 's enchantment were over , he ceased to be an eagle and became once more a man , and they returned home together .
17 And then they lived happily , and we who hear the story are happier still .
18 THE IRON STOVE -LRB- 7 -RRB- -LRB- 7 -RRB- Grimm .
19 Once upon a time when wishes came true there was a king 's son who was enchanted by an old witch , so that he was obliged to sit in a large iron stove in a wood .
20 There he lived for many years , and no one could free him .
21 At last a XXXXX 's daughter came into the wood ; she had lost her way , and could not find her father 's kingdom again .	king		enchantment|king|man|one|parents|shell|story|thither|wishes|witch

1 `` Heaven bless Mrs. Saxby , '' he remarked fervently .
2 `` But is there any known way of overcoming your aunt 's scruples ?
3 If so , I am ready to risk it . ''
4 `` There is none .
5 Aunt Martha is very good and kind to me , but she will never stop trying to bring me up .
6 The process will be going on when I am fifty .
7 And she hates men !
8 I do n't know what she would do if she saw me now . ''
9 Mr. Shelmardine frowned and switched the unoffending daisies viciously with his cane .
10 `` Then there is no hope of my seeing you openly and above-board ? ''
11 `` Not at present , '' I said faintly .
12 After a brief silence we began to talk of other things .
13 He told me how he happened to see me first .
14 `` I was curious to know who the people were who were always in the same place at the same time , so one day I took my telescope .
15 I could see you plainly .
16 You were reading and had your hat off .
17 When I went back to the hotel I asked Mrs. Allardyce if she knew who the boarders at Fir Cottage were and she told me .
18 I had heard Connie speak of you , and I determined to make your acquaintance . ''
19 When we reached the lane I held out my hand for the hymnal .
20 `` You must n't come any further , Mr. Shelmardine , '' I said hurriedly .
21 `` Aunt -- XXXXX might see you . ''	Aunt		Aunt|Mr.|Mrs.|daisies|hotel|men|none|place|silence|way

1 ` You need not fear Militza , ' said the beautiful girl , looking at the Prince with friendly eyes .
2 ` An evil magician has not robbed you of your fruit , but he stole the seed from my mother , and thereby caused her death .
3 When she was dying she bade me take the fruit , which you have no right to possess , from the trees every year as soon as it was ripe .
4 This I would have done to-night too , if you had not seized me with such force , and so broken the spell I was under . '
5 Iwanich , who had been prepared to meet a terrible magician and not a lovely girl , fell desperately in love with her .
6 They spent the rest of the night in pleasant conversation , and when Militza wished to go away he begged her not to leave him . '
7 I would gladly stay with you longer , ' said Militza , ` but a wicked witch once cut off a lock of my hair when I was asleep , which has put me in her power , and if morning were still to find me here she would do me some harm , and you , too , perhaps . '
8 Having said these words , she drew a sparkling diamond ring from her finger , which she handed to the Prince , saying : ` Keep this ring in memory of Militza , and think of her sometimes if you never see her again .
9 But if your love is really true , come and find me in my own kingdom .
10 I may not show you the way there , but this ring will guide you .
11 ` If you have love and courage enough to undertake this journey , whenever you come to a cross-road always look at this diamond before you settle which way you are going to take .
12 If it sparkles as brightly as ever go straight on , but if its lustre is dimmed choose another path . '
13 Then Militza bent over the Prince and kissed him on his forehead , and before he had time to say a word she vanished through the branches of the tree in a little white cloud .
14 Morning broke , and the Prince , still full of the wonderful apparition , left his perch and returned to the palace like one in a dream , without even knowing if the fruit had been taken or not ; for his whole mind was absorbed by thoughts of Militza and how he was to find her .
15 As soon as the head-gardener saw the Prince going towards the palace he ran to the trees , and when he saw them laden with ripe fruit he hastened to tell the King the joyful news .
16 The King was beside himself for joy , and hurried at once to the garden and made the gardener pick him some of the fruit .
17 He tasted it , and found the apple quite as luscious as it had been in his dream .
18 He went at once to his son Iwanich , and after embracing him tenderly and heaping praises on him , he asked him how he had succeeded in protecting the costly fruit from the power of the magician .
19 This question placed Iwanich in a dilemma .
20 But as he did not want the real story to be known , he said that about midnight a huge wasp had flown through the branches , and buzzed incessantly round him .
21 He had warded it off with his sword , and at dawn , when he was becoming quite worn out , the XXXXX had vanished as suddenly as it had appeared .	wasp		apparition|branches|forehead|journey|kingdom|love|mother|path|rest|wasp

1 Snati immediately sprang upon him , and Ring assisted in the attack , and after a hard struggle they mastered him a second time .
2 When they got back again to the window they saw that the old hag was moving towards the door .
3 ` Now we must go in at once , ' said Snati , ` and try to master her there , for if she once gets out we shall have no chance with her .
4 She is the worst witch that ever lived , and no iron can cut her .
5 One of us must pour boiling porridge out of the pot on her , and the other punch her with red-hot iron . '
6 In they went then , and no sooner did the hag see them than she said , ` So you have come , Prince Ring ; you must have seen to my husband and children . '
7 Snati saw that she was about to attack them , and sprang at her with a red-hot iron from the fire , while Ring kept pouring boiling porridge on her without stopping , and in this way they at last got her killed .
8 Then they burned the old troll and her to ashes , and explored the cave , where they found plenty of gold and treasures .
9 The most valuable of these they carried with them as far as the cliff , and left them there .
10 Then they hastened home to the King with his three treasures , where they arrived late on Christmas night , and Ring handed them over to him .
11 The King was beside himself with joy , and was astonished at how clever a man Ring was in all kinds of feats , so that he esteemed him still more highly than before , and betrothed his daughter to him ; and the feast for this was to last all through Christmastide .
12 Ring thanked the King courteously for this and all his other kindnesses , and as soon as he had finished eating and drinking in the hall went off to sleep in his own room .
13 Snati , however , asked permission to sleep in the Prince 's bed for that night , while the Prince should sleep where the Dog usually lay .
14 Ring said he was welcome to do so , and that he deserved more from him than that came to .
15 So Snati went up into the Prince 's bed , but after a time he came back , and told Ring he could go there himself now , but to take care not to meddle with anything that was in the bed .
16 Now the story comes back to Red , who came into the hall and showed the King his right arm wanting the hand , and said that now he could see what kind of a man his intended son-in-law was , for he had done this to him without any cause whatever .
17 The King became very angry , and said he would soon find out the truth about it , and if Ring had cut off his hand without good cause he should be hanged ; but if it was otherwise , then Red should die .
18 So the King sent for Ring and asked him for what reason he had done this .
19 Snati , however , had just told Ring what had happened during the night , and in reply he asked the King to go with him and he would show him something .
20 The King went with him to his sleeping-room , and saw lying on the bed a man 's hand holding a sword .
21 ` This hand , ' said XXXXX , ` came over the partition during the night , and was about to run me through in my bed , if I had not defended myself . '	Ring		Ring|bed|chance|children|door|joy|kind|permission|pot|something

1 Striped Chipmunk told the same story .
2 So did Unc ' Billy Possum .
3 It was the same with all of Old Mr. Toad 's old friends and neighbors , excepting Bobby Coon , who , you know , is Buster Bear 's little cousin .
4 To him Old Mr. Toad was very polite and talked a great deal about Buster Bear , and thought that Bobby must be very proud to be related to Buster .
5 At first everybody thought it a great joke to see Old Mr. Toad so puffed up with , pride , but after a little they grew tired of being snubbed by their old friend and neighbor , and began to say unpleasant things about him .
6 Then they decided that what Old Mr. Toad needed was a lesson , so they put their heads together and planned how they would teach Old Mr. Toad how foolish it is for any one to be puffed up with pride .
7 XXI OLD MR. TOAD RECEIVES ANOTHER INVITATION The friends and neighbors of Old Mr. Toad decided that he needed to be taught a lesson .
8 At first , you know , every one had laughed at him , because he had grown too proud to speak to them , but after a little they grew tired of being treated so , and some of them put their heads together to think of some plan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson and what a very , very foolish thing false pride is .
9 The very next day Jimmy Skunk went into the Green Forest to look for Buster Bear .
10 You know Jimmy is n't afraid of Buster .
11 He did n't have to look long , and when he had found him , the very first thing he did was to ask Buster if he had seen any fat beetles that morning .
12 You know Jimmy is very fond of fat beetles , and the first thing he asks any one he may happen to meet is if they have seen any .
13 Buster Bear grinned and said he thought he knew where there might be a few , and he would be pleased to have Jimmy go with him to see .
14 Sure enough , under an old log he found five fat beetles , and these Jimmy gobbled up without even asking Buster if he would have one .
15 Jimmy is usually very polite , but this time he quite forgot politeness .
16 I am afraid he is rather apt to when fat beetles are concerned .
17 But Buster did n't seem to mind .
18 When the last beetle had disappeared Jimmy smacked his lips , and then he told Buster Bear what he had come for .
19 Of course , at first Buster had thought it was for the fat beetles .
20 But it was n't .
21 No , Sir , it was n't for the fat XXXXX at all .	beetles		Mr.|beetles|course|day|deal|lips|log|politeness|pride|story

1 Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her , and she trembled till she shook the house , quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit , and had no reason to be afraid of it .
2 Presently the Rabbit came up to the door , and tried to open it ; but , as the door opened inwards , and Alice 's elbow was pressed hard against it , that attempt proved a failure .
3 Alice heard it say to itself ` Then I 'll go round and get in at the window . '
4 ` THAT you wo n't ' thought Alice , and , after waiting till she fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window , she suddenly spread out her hand , and made a snatch in the air .
5 She did not get hold of anything , but she heard a little shriek and a fall , and a crash of broken glass , from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame , or something of the sort .
6 Next came an angry voice -- the Rabbit 's -- ` Pat !
7 Pat !
8 Where are you ? '
9 And then a voice she had never heard before , ` Sure then I 'm here !
10 Digging for apples , yer honour ! '
11 ` Digging for apples , indeed ! '
12 said the Rabbit angrily .
13 ` Here !
14 Come and help me out of THIS ! '
15 -LRB- Sounds of more broken glass . -RRB-
16 ` Now tell me , Pat , what 's that in the window ? '
17 ` Sure , it 's an arm , yer honour ! '
18 -LRB- He pronounced it ` arrum . ' -RRB-
19 ` An arm , you goose !
20 Who ever saw one that size ?
21 Why , it fills the whole XXXXX ! '	window		air|anything|elbow|failure|goose|hand|honour|shriek|size|window

1 ` Well , you have done well enough for to-day , ' she grumbled ; ` but to-morrow you 'll have something more difficult to do , and if you do n't do it well , you pampered brats , straight into the oven you go . '
2 Half-dead with fright , and trembling in every limb , the poor children lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dared not close their eyes , and scarcely ventured to breathe .
3 In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips .
4 Then the witch left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood .
5 As soon as she had gone out of sight the children took the comb and the handkerchief , and , taking one another by the hand , they started and ran , and ran , and ran .
6 And first they met the watch-dog , who was going to leap on them and tear them to pieces ; but they threw the remains of their bread to him , and he ate them and wagged his tail .
7 Then they were hindered by the birch-trees , whose branches almost put their eyes out .
8 But the little sister tied the twigs together with a piece of ribbon , and they got past safely , and , after running through the wood , came out on to the open fields .
9 In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen and tangling the threads as it wove .
10 And the witch returned to see how the children were getting on ; and she crept up to the window , and whispered : ` Are you weaving , my little dear ? '
11 ` Yes , granny , I am weaving , ' answered the cat .
12 When the witch saw that the children had escaped her , she was furious , and , hitting the cat with a porringer , she said : ` Why did you let the children leave the hut ?
13 Why did you not scratch their eyes out ? '
14 But the cat curled up its tail and put its back up , and answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never even threw me a bone , but the dear children gave me their own piece of ham . '
15 Then the witch was furious with the watch-dog and with the birch-trees , because they had let the children pass .
16 But the dog answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never gave me so much as a hard crust , but the dear children gave me their own loaf of bread . '
17 And the birch rustled its leaves , and said : ' I have served you longer than I can say , and you never tied a bit of twine even round my branches ; and the dear children bound them up with their brightest ribbons . '
18 So the witch saw there was no help to be got from her old servants , and that the best thing she could do was to mount on her broom and set off in pursuit of the children .
19 And as the children ran they heard the sound of the broom sweeping the ground close behind them , so instantly they threw the handkerchief down over their shoulder , and in a moment a deep , broad river flowed behind them .
20 When the witch came up to it , it took her a long time before she found a place which she could ford over on her broom-stick ; but at last she got across , and continued the chase faster than before .
21 And as the XXXXX ran they heard a sound , and the little sister put her ear to the ground , and heard the broom sweeping the earth close behind them ; so , quick as thought , she threw the comb down on the ground , and in an instant , as the cat had said , a dense forest sprung up , in which the roots and branches were so closely intertwined , that it was impossible to force a way through it .	children		children|eyes|ground|help|pieces|ribbons|tasks|thing|threads|wood

1 Having said these words , she drew a sparkling diamond ring from her finger , which she handed to the Prince , saying : ` Keep this ring in memory of Militza , and think of her sometimes if you never see her again .
2 But if your love is really true , come and find me in my own kingdom .
3 I may not show you the way there , but this ring will guide you .
4 ` If you have love and courage enough to undertake this journey , whenever you come to a cross-road always look at this diamond before you settle which way you are going to take .
5 If it sparkles as brightly as ever go straight on , but if its lustre is dimmed choose another path . '
6 Then Militza bent over the Prince and kissed him on his forehead , and before he had time to say a word she vanished through the branches of the tree in a little white cloud .
7 Morning broke , and the Prince , still full of the wonderful apparition , left his perch and returned to the palace like one in a dream , without even knowing if the fruit had been taken or not ; for his whole mind was absorbed by thoughts of Militza and how he was to find her .
8 As soon as the head-gardener saw the Prince going towards the palace he ran to the trees , and when he saw them laden with ripe fruit he hastened to tell the King the joyful news .
9 The King was beside himself for joy , and hurried at once to the garden and made the gardener pick him some of the fruit .
10 He tasted it , and found the apple quite as luscious as it had been in his dream .
11 He went at once to his son Iwanich , and after embracing him tenderly and heaping praises on him , he asked him how he had succeeded in protecting the costly fruit from the power of the magician .
12 This question placed Iwanich in a dilemma .
13 But as he did not want the real story to be known , he said that about midnight a huge wasp had flown through the branches , and buzzed incessantly round him .
14 He had warded it off with his sword , and at dawn , when he was becoming quite worn out , the wasp had vanished as suddenly as it had appeared .
15 The King , who never doubted the truth of this tale , bade his son go to rest at once and recover from the fatigues of the night ; but he himself went and ordered many feasts to be held in honour of the preservation of the wonderful fruit .
16 The whole capital was in a stir , and everyone shared in the King 's joy ; the Prince alone took no part in the festivities .
17 While the King was at a banquet , Iwanich took some purses of gold , and mounting the quickest horse in the royal stable , he sped off like the wind without a single soul being any the wiser .
18 It was only on the next day that they missed him ; the King was very distressed at his disappearance , and sent search-parties all over the kingdom to look for him , but in vain ; and after six months they gave him up as dead , and in another six months they had forgotten all about him .
19 But in the meantime the Prince , with the help of his ring , had had a most successful journey , and no evil had befallen him .
20 At the end of three months he came to the entrance of a huge forest , which looked as if it had never been trodden by human foot before , and which seemed to stretch out indefinitely .
21 The Prince was about to enter the wood by a little XXXXX he had discovered , when he heard a voice shouting to him : ` Hold , youth !	path		day|entrance|garden|help|journey|kingdom|path|power|tale|words

1 THE FLOWER QUEEN 'S DAUGHTER -LRB- 23 -RRB- -LRB- 23 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer .
2 Von Wliolocki .
3 A young Prince was riding one day through a meadow that stretched for miles in front of him , when he came to a deep open ditch .
4 He was turning aside to avoid it , when he heard the sound of someone crying in the ditch .
5 He dismounted from his horse , and stepped along in the direction the sound came from .
6 To his astonishment he found an old woman , who begged him to help her out of the ditch .
7 The Prince bent down and lifted her out of her living grave , asking her at the same time how she had managed to get there .
8 ` My son , ' answered the old woman , ' I am a very poor woman , and soon after midnight I set out for the neighbouring town in order to sell my eggs in the market on the following morning ; but I lost my way in the dark , and fell into this deep ditch , where I might have remained for ever but for your kindness . '
9 Then the Prince said to her , ` You can hardly walk ; I will put you on my horse and lead you home .
10 Where do you live ? '
11 ` Over there , at the edge of the forest in the little hut you see in the distance , ' replied the old woman .
12 The Prince lifted her on to his horse , and soon they reached the hut , where the old woman got down , and turning to the Prince said , ` Just wait a moment , and I will give you something . '
13 And she disappeared into her hut , but returned very soon and said , ` You are a mighty Prince , but at the same time you have a kind heart , which deserves to be rewarded .
14 Would you like to have the most beautiful woman in the world for your wife ? '
15 ` Most certainly I would , ' replied the Prince .
16 So the old woman continued , ` The most beautiful woman in the whole world is the daughter of the Queen of the Flowers , who has been captured by a dragon .
17 If you wish to marry her , you must first set her free , and this I will help you to do .
18 I will give you this little bell : if you ring it once , the King of the Eagles will appear ; if you ring it twice , the King of the Foxes will come to you ; and if you ring it three times , you will see the King of the Fishes by your side .
19 These will help you if you are in any difficulty .
20 Now farewell , and heaven prosper your undertaking . '
21 She handed him the little bell , and there disappeared XXXXX and all , as though the earth had swallowed her up .	hut		difficulty|edge|forest|heaven|hut|moment|side|time|undertaking|wife

1 He took his place at the Council Rock , too , when the Pack met , and there he discovered that if he stared hard at any wolf , the wolf would be forced to drop his eyes , and so he used to stare for fun .
2 At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the pads of his friends , for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and burs in their coats .
3 He would go down the hillside into the cultivated lands by night , and look very curiously at the villagers in their huts , but he had a mistrust of men because Bagheera showed him a square box with a drop gate so cunningly hidden in the jungle that he nearly walked into it , and told him that it was a trap .
4 He loved better than anything else to go with Bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest , to sleep all through the drowsy day , and at night see how Bagheera did his killing .
5 Bagheera killed right and left as he felt hungry , and so did Mowgli -- with one exception .
6 As soon as he was old enough to understand things , Bagheera told him that he must never touch cattle because he had been bought into the Pack at the price of a bull 's life .
7 `` All the jungle is thine , '' said Bagheera , `` and thou canst kill everything that thou art strong enough to kill ; but for the sake of the bull that bought thee thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old .
8 That is the Law of the Jungle . ''
9 Mowgli obeyed faithfully .
10 And he grew and grew strong as a boy must grow who does not know that he is learning any lessons , and who has nothing in the world to think of except things to eat .
11 Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere Khan was not a creature to be trusted , and that some day he must kill Shere Khan .
12 But though a young wolf would have remembered that advice every hour , Mowgli forgot it because he was only a boy -- though he would have called himself a wolf if he had been able to speak in any human tongue .
13 Shere Khan was always crossing his path in the jungle , for as Akela grew older and feebler the lame tiger had come to be great friends with the younger wolves of the Pack , who followed him for scraps , a thing Akela would never have allowed if he had dared to push his authority to the proper bounds .
14 Then Shere Khan would flatter them and wonder that such fine young hunters were content to be led by a dying wolf and a man 's cub .
15 `` They tell me , '' Shere Khan would say , `` that at Council ye dare not look him between the eyes . ''
16 And the young wolves would growl and bristle .
17 Bagheera , who had eyes and ears everywhere , knew something of this , and once or twice he told Mowgli in so many words that Shere Khan would kill him some day .
18 Mowgli would laugh and answer : `` I have the Pack and I have thee ; and Baloo , though he is so lazy , might strike a blow or two for my sake .
19 Why should I be afraid ? ''
20 It was one very warm day that a new notion came to Bagheera -- born of something that he had heard .
21 Perhaps Ikki the Porcupine had told him ; but he said to Mowgli when they were deep in the XXXXX , as the boy lay with his head on Bagheera 's beautiful black skin , `` Little Brother , how often have I told thee that Shere Khan is thy enemy ? ''	jungle		Law|advice|art|authority|creature|fun|heart|hillside|jungle|tiger

1 In a moment a glittering palace arose before the eyes of the Fairy which blinded her with its dazzling splendour , and with its many doors and passages prevented her for some time from finding her way out of it .
2 In the meantime the black girl hurried on with the Prince , hastening to reach the river , where once on the other side they would for ever be out of the wicked Fairy 's power .
3 But before they had accomplished half the way they heard again the rustle of her garments and her muttered curses pursuing them closely .
4 The Prince was terrified ; he dared not look back , and he felt his strength giving way .
5 But before he had time to despair the girl uttered some more magic words , and immediately she herself was changed into a pond , and the Prince into a duck swimming on its surface .
6 When the Fairy saw this her rage knew no bounds , and she used all her magic wits to make the pond disappear ; she caused a hill of sand to arise at her feet , meaning it to dry up the water at once .
7 But the sand hill only drove the pond a little farther away , and its waters seemed to increase instead of diminishing .
8 When the old woman saw that the powers of her magic were of so little avail , she had recourse to cunning .
9 She threw a lot of gold nuts into the pond , hoping in this way to catch the duck , but all her efforts were fruitless , for the little creature refused to let itself be caught .
10 Then a new idea struck the wicked old woman , and hiding herself behind the rock which had sheltered the fugitives , she waited behind it , watching carefully for the moment when the Prince and her daughter should resume their natural forms and continue their journey .
11 She had not to wait long , for as soon as the girl thought her mother was safely out of the way , she changed herself and the Prince once more into their human shape , and set out cheerfully for the river .
12 But they had not gone many steps when the wicked Fairy hurried after them , a drawn dagger in her hand , and was close upon them , when suddenly , instead of the Prince and her daughter , she found herself in front of a great stone church , whose entrance was carefully guarded by a huge monk .
13 Breathless with rage and passion , she tried to plunge her dagger into the monk 's heart , but it fell shattered in pieces at her feet .
14 In her desperation she determined to pull down the church , and thus to destroy her two victims for ever .
15 She stamped three times on the ground , and the earth trembled , and both the church and the monk began to shake .
16 As soon as the Fairy saw this she retreated to some distance from the building , so as not to be hurt herself by its fall .
17 But once more her scheme was doomed to failure , for hardly had she gone a yard from the church than both it and the monk disappeared , and she found herself in a wood black as night , and full of wolves and bears and wild animals of all sorts and descriptions .
18 Then her wrath gave place to terror , for she feared every moment to be torn in pieces by the beasts who one and all seemed to defy her power .
19 She thought it wisest to make her way as best she could out of the forest , and then to pursue the fugitives once more and accomplish their destruction either by force or cunning .
20 In the meantime the Prince and the black girl had again assumed their natural forms , and were hurrying on as fast as they could to reach the river .
21 But when they got there they found that there was no way in which they could cross it , and the girl 's magic art seemed no longer to have any XXXXX .	power		Fairy|desperation|earth|heart|idea|journey|power|river|rustle|wood

1 repeated the Mouse , ` they are such curious names ; they make me very thoughtful . '
2 ` Oh , you sit at home in your dark grey coat and your long tail , ' said the Cat , ` and you get fanciful .
3 That comes of not going out in the day . '
4 The Mouse had a good cleaning out while the Cat was gone , and made the house tidy ; but the greedy Cat ate the fat every bit up .
5 ` When it is all gone one can be at rest , ' she said to herself , and at night she came home sleek and satisfied .
6 The Mouse asked at once after the third child 's name .
7 ` It wo n't please you any better , ' said the Cat , ` he was called Clean Gone . '
8 ` Cleangone ! '
9 repeated the Mouse . '
10 I do not believe that name has been printed any more than the others .
11 Cleangone !
12 What can it mean ? '
13 She shook her head , curled herself up , and went to sleep .
14 From this time on no one asked the Cat to stand godmother ; but when the winter came and there was nothing to be got outside , the Mouse remembered their provision and said , ` Come , Cat , we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored away ; it will taste very good . '
15 ` Yes , indeed , ' answered the Cat ; ` it will taste as good to you as if you stretched your thin tongue out of the window . '
16 They started off , and when they reached it they found the pot in its place , but quite empty !
17 ` Ah , ' said the Mouse , ' ` now I know what has happened !
18 It has all come out !
19 You are a true friend to me !
20 You have eaten it all when you stood godmother ; first the top off , then half of it gone , then -- ' ` Will you be quiet ! '
21 screamed the XXXXX .	Cat		Cat|Mouse|coat|day|head|name|one|others|pot|rest

1 There he bought himself some fine clothes , and a beautiful coach with four horses , hired two servants , and drove back to his master .
2 You may imagine how astonished he was to see his Herd-boy returning to him in this manner !
3 Then the youth told him of the piece of good luck that had befallen him , and asked him for the hand of his beautiful daughter .
4 This was readily granted , and the two lived in peace and happiness to the end of their lives .
5 THE INVISIBLE PRINCE Once upon a time there lived a Fairy who had power over the earth , the sea , fire , and the air ; and this Fairy had four sons .
6 The eldest , who was quick and lively , with a vivid imagination , she made Lord of Fire , which was in her opinion the noblest of all the elements .
7 To the second son , whose wisdom and prudence made amends for his being rather dull , she gave the government of the earth .
8 The third was wild and savage , and of monstrous stature ; and the Fairy , his mother , who was ashamed of his defects , hoped to hide them by creating him King of the Seas .
9 The youngest , who was the slave of his passions and of a very uncertain temper , became Prince of the Air .
10 Being the youngest , he was naturally his mother 's favourite ; but this did not blind her to his weaknesses , and she foresaw that some day he would suffer much pain through falling in love .
11 So she thought the best thing she could do was to bring him up with a horror of women ; and , to her great delight , she saw this dislike only increased as he grew older .
12 From his earliest childhood he heard nothing but stories of princes who had fallen into all sorts of troubles through love ; and she drew such terrible pictures of poor little Cupid that the young man had no difficulty in believing that he was the root of all evil .
13 All the time that this wise mother could spare from filling her son with hatred for all womenkind she passed in giving him a love of the pleasures of the chase , which henceforth became his chief joy .
14 For his amusement she had made a new forest , planted with the most splendid trees , and turned loose in it every animal that could be found in any of the four quarters of the globe .
15 In the midst of this forest she built a palace which had not its equal for beauty in the whole world , and then she considered that she had done enough to make any prince happy .
16 Now it is all very well to abuse the God of Love , but a man can not struggle against his fate .
17 In his secret heart the Prince got tired of his mother 's constant talk on this subject ; and when one day she quitted the palace to attend to some business , begging him never to go beyond the grounds , he at once jumped at the chance of disobeying her .
18 Left to himself the Prince soon forgot the wise counsels of his mother , and feeling very much bored with his own company , he ordered some of the spirits of the air to carry him to the court of a neighbouring sovereign .
19 This kingdom was situated in the Island of Roses , where the climate is so delicious that the grass is always green and the flowers always sweet .
20 The waves , instead of beating on the rocks , seemed to die gently on the shore ; clusters of golden bushes covered the land , and the vines were bent low with grapes .
21 The King of this island had a XXXXX named Rosalie , who was more lovely than any girl in the whole world .	daughter		PRINCE|chance|daughter|elements|happiness|luck|nothing|passions|talk|vines

1 When the youth heard these words a cold shudder ran over him , for he remembered that his soul was at stake .
2 He was cunning enough , however , to conceal his feelings and to make no direct answer , but he only asked the maiden , as if carelessly , what was remarkable about the ring ?
3 She answered , ` No mortal is able entirely to understand the power of this ring , because no one thoroughly understands the secret signs engraved upon it .
4 But even with my half-knowledge I can work great wonders .
5 If I put the ring upon the little finger of my left hand , then I can fly like a bird through the air wherever I wish to go .
6 If I put it on the third finger of my left hand I am invisible , and I can see everything that passes around me , though no one can see me .
7 If I put the ring upon the middle finger of my left hand , then neither fire nor water nor any sharp weapon can hurt me .
8 If I put it on the forefinger of my left hand , then I can with its help produce whatever I wish .
9 I can in a single moment build houses or anything I desire .
10 Finally , as long as I wear the ring on the thumb of my left hand , that hand is so strong that it can break down rocks and walls .
11 Besides these , the ring has other secret signs which , as I said , no one can understand .
12 No doubt it contains secrets of great importance .
13 The ring formerly belonged to King Solomon , the wisest of kings , during whose reign the wisest men lived .
14 But it is not known whether this ring was ever made by mortal hands : it is supposed that an angel gave it to the wise King . '
15 When the youth heard all this he determined to try and get possession of the ring , though he did not quite believe in all its wonderful gifts .
16 He wished the maiden would let him have it in his hand , but he did not quite like to ask her to do so , and after a while she put it back into the box .
17 A few days after they were again speaking of the magic ring , and the youth said , ' I do not think it possible that the ring can have all the power you say it has . '
18 Then the maiden opened the box and took the ring out , and it glittered as she held it like the clearest sunbeam .
19 She put it on the middle finger of her left hand , and told the youth to take a knife and try as hard as he could to cut her with it , for he would not be able to hurt her .
20 He was unwilling at first , but the maiden insisted .
21 Then he tried , at first only in play , and then seriously , to strike her with the XXXXX , but an invisible wall of iron seemed to be between them , and the maiden stood before him laughing and unhurt .	knife		everything|feelings|finger|importance|knife|thumb|water|wonders|words|youth

1 And bring them to me . '
2 The Princess did so , and brought him what he desired .
3 The following evening the Prince dressed himself for the tournament .
4 Before he went he said to his wife , ` Now mind you do not say when you see me that I am the Crab .
5 For if you do this evil will come of it .
6 Place yourself at the window with your sisters ; I will ride by and throw you the silver apple .
7 Take it in your hand , but if they ask you who I am , say that you do not know . '
8 So saying , he kissed her , repeated his warning once more , and went away .
9 The Princess went with her sisters to the window and looked on at the tournament .
10 Presently her husband rode by and threw the apple up to her .
11 She caught it in her hand and went with it to her room , and by-and-by her husband came back to her .
12 But her father was much surprised that she did not seem to care about any of the Princes ; he therefore appointed a second tournament .
13 The Crab then gave his wife the same directions as before , only this time the apple which she received from the black man was of gold .
14 But before the Prince went to the tournament he said to his wife , ` Now I know you will betray me to-day . '
15 But she swore to him that she would not tell who he was .
16 He then repeated his warning and went away .
17 In the evening , while the Princess , with her mother and sisters , was standing at the window , the Prince suddenly galloped past on his steed and threw her the golden apple .
18 Then her mother flew into a passion , gave her a box on the ear , and cried out , ` Does not even that prince please you , you fool ? '
19 The Princess in her fright exclaimed , ` That is the Crab himself ! '
20 Her mother was still more angry because she had not been told sooner , ran into her daughter 's room where the crab-shell was still lying , took it up and threw it into the fire .
21 Then the poor Princess cried bitterly , but it was of no use ; her XXXXX did not come back .	husband		box|ear|father|gold|husband|mother|steed|tournament|wife|window

1 ` Do n't be impertinent , ' said the King , ` and do n't look at me like that ! '
2 He got behind Alice as he spoke . '
3 A cat may look at a king , ' said Alice .
4 ` I 've read that in some book , but I do n't remember where . '
5 ` Well , it must be removed , ' said the King very decidedly , and he called the Queen , who was passing at the moment , ` My dear !
6 I wish you would have this cat removed ! '
7 The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties , great or small .
8 ` Off with his head ! '
9 she said , without even looking round .
10 ` I 'll fetch the executioner myself , ' said the King eagerly , and he hurried off .
11 Alice thought she might as well go back , and see how the game was going on , as she heard the Queen 's voice in the distance , screaming with passion .
12 She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns , and she did not like the look of things at all , as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not .
13 So she went in search of her hedgehog .
14 The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog , which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other : the only difficulty was , that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden , where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree .
15 By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back , the fight was over , and both the hedgehogs were out of sight : ` but it does n't matter much , ' thought Alice , ` as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground . '
16 So she tucked it away under her arm , that it might not escape again , and went back for a little more conversation with her friend .
17 When she got back to the Cheshire Cat , she was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it : there was a dispute going on between the executioner , the King , and the Queen , who were all talking at once , while all the rest were quite silent , and looked very uncomfortable .
18 The moment Alice appeared , she was appealed to by all three to settle the question , and they repeated their arguments to her , though , as they all spoke at once , she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said .
19 The executioner 's argument was , that you could n't cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from : that he had never had to do such a thing before , and he was n't going to begin at HIS time of life .
20 The King 's argument was , that anything that had a head could be beheaded , and that you were n't to talk nonsense .
21 The Queen 's XXXXX was , that if something was n't done about it in less than no time she 'd have everybody executed , all round .	argument		anything|argument|difficulties|distance|fight|king|opportunity|turns|voice|way

1 Dick says there is no such thing as a kelpy .
2 But then Dick has no imagination .
3 It is no argument against a thing that you 've never seen it .
4 I have never seen the pyramids , either , but I know that there are pyramids .
5 Every summer we had some hobby .
6 The last summer before Dick and Mimi came we were crazy about kites .
7 A winter boy on the mainland showed Claude how to make them , and when we went back to the Big Half Moon we made kites galore .
8 Even pirating was n't such good fun .
9 Claude would go around to the other side of the Big Half Moon and we would play shipwrecked mariners signalling to each other with kites .
10 Oh , it was very exciting .
11 We had one kite that was a dandy .
12 It was as big as we could make it and covered with lovely red paper ; we had pasted gold tinsel stars all over it and written our names out in full on it -- Claude Martin Leete and Philippa Brewster Leete , Big Half Moon Lighthouse .
13 That kite had the most magnificent tail , too .
14 It used to scare the gulls nearly to death when we sent up our kites .
15 They did n't know what to make of them .
16 And the Big Half Moon is such a place for gulls -- there are hundreds of them here .
17 One day there was a grand wind for kite-flying , and Claude and I were having a splendid time .
18 We used our smaller kites for signalling , and when we got tired of that Claude sent me to the house for the big one .
19 I 'm sure I do n't know how it happened , but when I was coming back over the rocks I tripped and fell , and my elbow went clear through that lovely kite .
20 You would never have believed that one small elbow could make such a big hole .
21 Claude said it was just like a girl to fall and stick her XXXXX through a kite , but I do n't see why it should be any more like a girl than a boy .	elbow		elbow|hobby|hole|hundreds|imagination|one|paper|pyramids|rocks|thing

1 `` They obey , as the men do .
2 Mule , horse , elephant , or bullock , he obeys his driver , and the driver his sergeant , and the sergeant his lieutenant , and the lieutenant his captain , and the captain his major , and the major his colonel , and the colonel his brigadier commanding three regiments , and the brigadier the general , who obeys the Viceroy , who is the servant of the Empress .
3 Thus it is done . ''
4 `` Would it were so in Afghanistan ! ''
5 said the chief , `` for there we obey only our own wills . ''
6 `` And for that reason , '' said the native officer , twirling his mustache , `` your Amir whom you do not obey must come here and take orders from our Viceroy . ''
7 Parade Song of the Camp Animals ELEPHANTS OF THE GUN TEAMS We lent to Alexander the strength of Hercules , The wisdom of our foreheads , the cunning of our knees ; We bowed our necks to service : they ne'er were loosed again , -- Make way there -- way for the ten-foot teams Of the Forty-Pounder train !
8 GUN BULLOCKS Those heroes in their harnesses avoid a cannon-ball , And what they know of powder upsets them one and all ; Then we come into action and tug the guns again -- Make way there -- way for the twenty yoke Of the Forty-Pounder train !
9 CAVALRY HORSES By the brand on my shoulder , the finest of tunes Is played by the Lancers , Hussars , and Dragoons , And it 's sweeter than `` Stables '' or `` Water '' to me -- The Cavalry Canter of `` Bonnie Dundee '' !
10 Then feed us and break us and handle and groom , And give us good riders and plenty of room , And launch us in column of squadron and see The way of the war-horse to `` Bonnie Dundee '' !
11 SCREW-GUN MULES As me and my companions were scrambling up a hill , The path was lost in rolling stones , but we went forward still ; For we can wriggle and climb , my lads , and turn up everywhere , Oh , it 's our delight on a mountain height , with a leg or two to spare !
12 Good luck to every sergeant , then , that lets us pick our road ; Bad luck to all the driver-men that can not pack a load : For we can wriggle and climb , my lads , and turn up everywhere , Oh , it 's our delight on a mountain height , with a leg or two to spare !
13 COMMISSARIAT CAMELS We have n't a camelty tune of our own To help us trollop along , But every neck is a hair trombone -LRB- Rtt-ta-ta-ta !
14 is a hair trombone ! -RRB-
15 And this our marching-song : Ca n't !
16 Do n't !
17 Sha n't !
18 Wo n't !
19 Pass it along the line !
20 Somebody 's pack has slid from his back , Wish it were only mine !
21 XXXXX 's load has tipped off in the road -- Cheer for a halt and a row !	Somebody		MULES|Mule|Somebody|brigadier|delight|driver|heroes|lieutenant|officer|sergeant

1 ` Well , I must lie down outside , ' said Little Klaus ; and the farmer 's wife shut the door in his face .
2 Close by stood a large haystack , and between it and the house a little out-house , covered with a flat thatched roof . '
3 I can lie down there , ' thought Little Klaus , looking at the roof ; ` it will make a splendid bed , if only the stork wo n't fly down and bite my legs . '
4 For a live stork was standing on the roof , where it had its nest .
5 So Little Klaus crept up into the out-house , where he lay down , and made himself comfortable for the night .
6 The wooden shutters over the windows were not shut at the top , and he could just see into the room .
7 There stood a large table , spread with wine and roast meat and a beautiful fish .
8 The farmer 's wife and the sexton sat at the table , but there was no one else .
9 She was filling up his glass , while he stuck his fork into the fish which was his favourite dish .
10 ` If one could only get some of that ! '
11 thought Little Klaus , stretching his head towards the window .
12 Ah , what delicious cakes he saw standing there !
13 It WAS a feast !
14 Then he heard someone riding along the road towards the house .
15 It was the farmer coming home .
16 He was a very worthy man ; but he had one great peculiarity -- namely , that he could not bear to see a sexton .
17 If he saw one he was made quite mad .
18 That was why the sexton had gone to say good-day to the farmer 's wife when he knew that her husband was not at home , and the good woman therefore put in front of him the best food she had .
19 But when they heard the farmer coming they were frightened , and the farmer 's wife begged the sexton to creep into a great empty chest .
20 He did so , as he knew the poor man could not bear to see a sexton .
21 The XXXXX hastily hid all the beautiful food and the wine in her oven ; for if her husband had seen it , he would have been sure to ask what it all meant .	wife		Ah|dish|glass|home|house|man|peculiarity|road|top|wife

1 Then he began to jump up and down , all four feet together , his head close to the floor .
2 `` He threw me to and fro , but he could not shake me off .
3 He was dead before the big man blew him in two .
4 I did it !
5 Rikki-tikki-tck-tck !
6 Come then , Nagaina .
7 Come and fight with me .
8 You shall not be a widow long . ''
9 Nagaina saw that she had lost her chance of killing Teddy , and the egg lay between Rikki-tikki 's paws .
10 `` Give me the egg , Rikki-tikki .
11 Give me the last of my eggs , and I will go away and never come back , '' she said , lowering her hood .
12 `` Yes , you will go away , and you will never come back .
13 For you will go to the rubbish heap with Nag .
14 Fight , widow !
15 The big man has gone for his gun !
16 Fight ! ''
17 Rikki-tikki was bounding all round Nagaina , keeping just out of reach of her stroke , his little eyes like hot coals .
18 Nagaina gathered herself together and flung out at him .
19 Rikki-tikki jumped up and backward .
20 Again and again and again she struck , and each time her head came with a whack on the matting of the veranda and she gathered herself together like a watch spring .
21 Then Rikki-tikki danced in a circle to get behind her , and Nagaina spun round to keep her XXXXX to his head , so that the rustle of her tail on the matting sounded like dry leaves blown along by the wind .	head		Fight|feet|gun|head|hood|matting|stroke|time|veranda|widow

1 After walking for some time he came to a forest , into which he went a little way and stopped .
2 Then he heard sweet music from a harp , and went in the direction of the sound until he came to a clearing , and there he saw three women , one of whom sat on a golden chair , and was beautifully and grandly dressed ; she held a harp in her hands , and was very sorrowful .
3 The second was also finely dressed , but younger in appearance , and also sat on a chair , but it was not so grand as the first one 's .
4 The third stood beside them , and was very pretty to look at ; she had a green cloak over her other clothes , and it was easy to see that she was maid to the other two .
5 After the King had looked at them for a little he went forward and saluted them .
6 The one that sat on the golden chair asked him who he was and where he was going ; and he told her all the story -- how he was a king , and had lost his queen , and was now on his way to Hetland the Good , to ask the Queen of that country in marriage .
7 She answered that fortune had contrived this wonderfully , for pirates had plundered Hetland and killed the King , and she had fled from the land in terror , and had come hither after great trouble , and she was the very person he was looking for , and the others were her daughter and maid .
8 The King immediately asked her hand ; she gladly received his proposal and accepted him at once .
9 Thereafter they all set out , and made their way to the ship ; and after that nothing is told of their voyage until the King reached his own country .
10 There he made a great feast , and celebrated his marriage with this woman ; and after that things are quiet for a time .
11 Hermod and Hadvor took but little notice of the Queen and her daughter , but , on the other hand , Hadvor and the Queen 's maid , whose name was Olof , were very friendly , and Olof came often to visit Hadvor in her castle .
12 Before long the King went out to war , and no sooner was he away than the Queen came to talk with Hermod , and said that she wanted him to marry her daughter .
13 Hermod told her straight and plain that he would not do so , at which the Queen grew terribly angry , and said that in that case neither should he have Hadvor , for she would now lay this spell on him , that he should go to a desert island and there be a lion by day and a man by night .
14 He should also think always of Hadvor , which would cause him all the more sorrow , and from this spell he should never be freed until Hadvor burned the lion 's skin , and that would not happen very soon .
15 As soon as the Queen had finished her speech Hermod replied that he also laid a spell on her , and that was , that as soon as he was freed from her enchantments she should become a rat and her daughter a mouse , and fight with each other in the hall until he killed them with his sword .
16 After this Hermod disappeared , and no one knew what had become of him ; the Queen caused search to be made for him , but he could nowhere be found .
17 One time , when Olof was in the castle beside Hadvor , she asked the Princess if she knew where Hermod had gone to .
18 At this Hadvor became very sad , and said that she did not . '
19 I shall tell you then , ' said Olof , ` for I know all about it .
20 Hermod has disappeared through the wicked devices of the Queen , for she is a witch , and so is her daughter , though they have put on these beautiful forms .
21 Because Hermod would not fall in with the Queen 's plans , and marry her daughter , she has laid a XXXXX on him , to go on an island and be a lion by day and a man by night , and never be freed from this until you burn the lion 's skin .	spell		country|daughter|devices|fight|fortune|mouse|nothing|skin|spell|time

1 Take me with you , O Kala Nag ! ''
2 The elephant turned , without a sound , took three strides back to the boy in the moonlight , put down his trunk , swung him up to his neck , and almost before Little Toomai had settled his knees , slipped into the forest .
3 There was one blast of furious trumpeting from the lines , and then the silence shut down on everything , and Kala Nag began to move .
4 Sometimes a tuft of high grass washed along his sides as a wave washes along the sides of a ship , and sometimes a cluster of wild-pepper vines would scrape along his back , or a bamboo would creak where his shoulder touched it .
5 But between those times he moved absolutely without any sound , drifting through the thick Garo forest as though it had been smoke .
6 He was going uphill , but though Little Toomai watched the stars in the rifts of the trees , he could not tell in what direction .
7 Then Kala Nag reached the crest of the ascent and stopped for a minute , and Little Toomai could see the tops of the trees lying all speckled and furry under the moonlight for miles and miles , and the blue-white mist over the river in the hollow .
8 Toomai leaned forward and looked , and he felt that the forest was awake below him -- awake and alive and crowded .
9 A big brown fruit-eating bat brushed past his ear ; a porcupine 's quills rattled in the thicket ; and in the darkness between the tree stems he heard a hog-bear digging hard in the moist warm earth , and snuffing as it digged .
10 Then the branches closed over his head again , and Kala Nag began to go down into the valley -- not quietly this time , but as a runaway gun goes down a steep bank -- in one rush .
11 The huge limbs moved as steadily as pistons , eight feet to each stride , and the wrinkled skin of the elbow points rustled .
12 The undergrowth on either side of him ripped with a noise like torn canvas , and the saplings that he heaved away right and left with his shoulders sprang back again and banged him on the flank , and great trails of creepers , all matted together , hung from his tusks as he threw his head from side to side and plowed out his pathway .
13 Then Little Toomai laid himself down close to the great neck lest a swinging bough should sweep him to the ground , and he wished that he were back in the lines again .
14 The grass began to get squashy , and Kala Nag 's feet sucked and squelched as he put them down , and the night mist at the bottom of the valley chilled Little Toomai .
15 There was a splash and a trample , and the rush of running water , and Kala Nag strode through the bed of a river , feeling his way at each step .
16 Above the noise of the water , as it swirled round the elephant 's legs , Little Toomai could hear more splashing and some trumpeting both upstream and down -- great grunts and angry snortings , and all the mist about him seemed to be full of rolling , wavy shadows .
17 `` Ai ! ''
18 he said , half aloud , his teeth chattering .
19 `` The elephant-folk are out tonight .
20 It is the dance , then ! ''
21 Kala Nag swashed out of the water , blew his XXXXX clear , and began another climb .	trunk		O|back|grass|mist|noise|smoke|sound|teeth|trunk|valley

1 She had not stirred the whole night .
2 Now she raised her white face with dumb pleading in her eyes .
3 The doctor glanced at the sleeping form on the bed .
4 `` Your husband will live , Mrs. Fair , '' he said gently .
5 `` I think your coming saved him .
6 His joy turned the ebbing tide in favour of life . ''
7 `` Thank God ! ''
8 said Emily .
9 And for the first time in her life her beautiful voice trembled .
10 Min The morning sun hung , a red , lustreless ball , in the dull grey sky .
11 A light snow had fallen in the night and the landscape , crossed by spider-like trails of fences , was as white and lifeless as if wrapped in a shroud .
12 A young man was driving down the road to Rykman 's Corner ; the youthful face visible above the greatcoat was thoughtful and refined , the eyes deep blue and peculiarly beautiful , the mouth firm yet sensitive .
13 It was not a handsome face , but there was a strangely subtle charm about it .
14 The chill breathlessness of the air seemed prophetic of more snow .
15 The Reverend Allan Telford looked across the bare wastes and cold white hills and shivered , as if the icy lifelessness about him were slowly and relentlessly creeping into his own heart and life .
16 He felt utterly discouraged .
17 In his soul he was asking bitterly what good had come of all his prayerful labours among the people of this pinched , narrow world , as rugged and unbeautiful in form and life as the barren hills that shut them in .
18 He had been two years among them and he counted it two years of failure .
19 He had been too outspoken for them ; they resented sullenly his direct and incisive tirades against their pet sins .
20 They viewed his small innovations on their traditional ways of worship with disfavour and distrust and shut him out of their lives with an ever-increasing coldness .
21 He had meant well and worked hard and he felt his XXXXX keenly .	failure		Min|charm|face|failure|fences|icy|innovations|joy|time|wastes

1 The noise and thundering grew louder and louder , until the floor began to open , whereupon Hadvor made them take the caldron of pitch and pour plenty of it into the opening .
2 With that the noises grew fainter and fainter , till at last they ceased altogether .
3 Next morning the Queen rose early , and went out to the Palace gate , and there she found her brother the Giant lying dead .
4 She went up to him and said , ' I pronounce this spell , that you become a beautiful prince , and that Hadvor shall be unable to say anything against the charges that I shall bring against her . '
5 The body of the dead Giant now became that of a beautiful prince , and the Queen went in again . '
6 I do n't think , ' said she to the King , ` that your daughter is as good as she is said to be .
7 My brother came and asked her hand , and she has had him put to death .
8 I have just found his dead body lying at the Palace gate . '
9 The King went along with the Queen to see the body , and thought it all very strange ; so beautiful a youth , he said , would have been a worthy match for Hadvor , and he would readily have agreed to their marriage .
10 The Queen asked leave to decide what Hadvor 's punishment should be , which the King was very willing to allow , so as to escape from punishing his own daughter .
11 The Queen 's decision was that the King should make a big grave-mound for her brother , and put Hadvor into it beside him .
12 Olof knew all the plans of the Queen , and went to tell the Princess what had been done , whereupon Hadvor earnestly entreated her to tell her what to do .
13 ` First and foremost , ' said Olof , ` you must get a wide cloak to wear over your other clothes , when you are put into the mound .
14 The Giant 's ghost will walk after you are both left together in there , and he will have two dogs along with him .
15 He will ask you to cut pieces out of his legs to give to the dogs , but that you must not promise to do unless he tells you where Hermod has gone to , and tells you how to find him .
16 He will then let you stand on his shoulders , so as to get out of the mound ; but he means to cheat you all the same , and will catch you by the cloak to pull you back again ; but you must take care to have the cloak loose on your shoulders , so that he will only get hold of that . '
17 The mound was all ready now , and the Giant laid in it , and into it Hadvor also had to go without being allowed to make any defence .
18 After they were both left there everything happened just as Olof had said .
19 The prince became a Giant again , and asked Hadvor to cut the pieces out of his legs for the dogs ; but she refused until he told her that Hermod was in a desert island , which she could not reach unless she took the skin off the soles of his feet and made shoes out of that ; with these shoes she could travel both on land and sea .
20 This Hadvor now did , and the Giant then let her get up on his shoulders to get out of the mound .
21 As she sprang out he caught hold of her cloak ; but she had taken care to let it lie loose on her XXXXX , and so escaped .	shoulders		Giant|anything|care|clothes|dogs|floor|opening|punishment|shoulders|spell

1 `` Well , he is n't frightened now , yet just look at him go , '' retorted Jimmy .
2 `` Says he has got a beautiful voice , and that he has to take part in the spring chorus at the Smiling Pool and that he is late . ''
3 Peter looked very hard at Jimmy to see if he was fooling or telling the truth .
4 Then he began to laugh .
5 `` Old Mr. Toad sing !
6 The very idea ! ''
7 he cried .
8 `` He can sing about as much as I can , and that is not at all . ''
9 Jimmy grinned .
10 `` I think he 's crazy , if you ask me , '' said he .
11 `` And yet he was just as earnest about it as if it were really so .
12 I think he must have eaten something that has gone to his head .
13 There 's Unc ' Billy Possum over there .
14 Let 's ask him what he thinks . ''
15 So Jimmy and Peter joined Unc ' Billy , and Jimmy told the story about Old Mr. Toad all over again .
16 Unc ' Billy chuckled and laughed just as they had at the idea of Old Mr. Toad 's saying he had a beautiful voice .
17 But Unc ' Billy has a shrewd little head on his shoulders .
18 After a few minutes he stopped laughing .
19 `` Ah done learn a right smart long time ago that Ah don ' know all there is to know about mah neighbors , '' said he .
20 `` We-uns done think of Brer Toad as ugly-lookin ' fo ' so long that we-uns may have overlooked something .
21 Ah don ' reckon Brer Toad can sing , but XXXXX ` lows that perhaps he thinks he can .	Ah		Ah|head|idea|laugh|part|shoulders|think|time|truth|voice

1 So the children left the house together ; and the little sister , who was very wise for her years , said to the brother : ` We will first go and see our own dear grandmother , and tell her where our step-mother is sending us . '
2 And when the grandmother heard where they were going , she cried and said : ` You poor motherless children !
3 How I pity you ; and yet I can do nothing to help you !
4 Your step-mother is not sending you to her granny , but to a wicked witch who lives in that great gloomy wood .
5 Now listen to me , children .
6 You must be civil and kind to everyone , and never say a cross word to anyone , and never touch a crumb belonging to anyone else .
7 Who knows if , after all , help may not be sent to you ? '
8 And she gave her grandchildren a bottle of milk and a piece of ham and a loaf of bread , and they set out for the great gloomy wood .
9 When they reached it they saw in front of them , in the thickest of the trees , a queer little hut , and when they looked into it , there lay the witch , with her head on the threshold of the door , with one foot in one corner and the other in the other corner , and her knees cocked up , almost touching the ceiling .
10 ` Who 's there ? '
11 she snarled , in an awful voice , when she saw the children .
12 And they answered civilly , though they were so terrified that they hid behind one another , and said : ` Good-morning , granny ; our step-mother has sent us to wait upon you , and serve you . '
13 ` See that you do it well , then , ' growled the witch .
14 ` If I am pleased with you , I 'll reward you ; but if I am not , I 'll put you in a pan and fry you in the oven -- that 's what I 'll do with you , my pretty dears !
15 You have been gently reared , but you 'll find my work hard enough .
16 See if you do n't . '
17 And , so saying , she set the girl down to spin yarn , and she gave the boy a sieve in which to carry water from the well , and she herself went out into the wood .
18 Now , as the girl was sitting at her distaff , weeping bitterly because she could not spin , she heard the sound of hundreds of little feet , and from every hole and corner in the hut mice came pattering along the floor , squeaking and saying : ` Little girl , why are your eyes so red ?
19 If you want help , then give us some bread . '
20 And the girl gave them the bread that her grandmother had given her .
21 Then the mice told her that the XXXXX had a cat , and the cat was very fond of ham ; if she would give the cat her ham , it would show her the way out of the wood , and in the meantime they would spin the yarn for her .	witch		brother|children|girl|help|hut|nothing|oven|queer|witch|work

1 she answered angrily .
2 ` Ca n't you see that my hands and feet are nearly frozen ? '
3 Then King Frost sprang to and fro in front of her , questioning her , and getting only rude , rough words in reply , till at last he got very angry , and cracked his fingers , and gnashed his teeth , and froze her to death .
4 But in the hut her mother was waiting for her return , and as she grew impatient she said to her husband : ` Get out the horses , old man , to go and fetch her home ; but see that you are careful not to upset the sledge and lose the chest . '
5 But the doggie beneath the table began to bark , saying : ` Your daughter is frozen quite stiff and cold , And shall never have a chest full of gold . '
6 ` Do n't tell such wicked lies ! '
7 scolded the woman .
8 ` There 's a cake for you ; now say : `` HER daughter shall marry a mighty King . ''
9 At that moment the door flew open , and she rushed out to meet her daughter , and as she took her frozen body in her arms she too was chilled to death .
10 THE DEATH OF THE SUN-HERO -LRB- 27 -RRB- -LRB- 27 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends .
11 Von Wliolocki .
12 Many , many thousand years ago there lived a mighty King whom heaven had blessed with a clever and beautiful son .
13 When he was only ten years old the boy was cleverer than all the King 's counsellors put together , and when he was twenty he was the greatest hero in the whole kingdom .
14 His father could not make enough of his son , and always had him clothed in golden garments which shone and sparkled like the sun ; and his mother gave him a white horse , which never slept , and which flew like the wind .
15 All the people in the land loved him dearly , and called him the Sun-Hero , for they did not think his like existed under the sun .
16 Now it happened one night that both his parents had the same extraordinary dream .
17 They dreamt that a girl all dressed in red had come to them and said : ` If you wish that your son should really become the Sun-Hero in deed and not only in name , let him go out into the world and search for the Tree of the Sun , and when he has found it , let him pluck a golden apple from it and bring it home . '
18 When the King and Queen had each related their dreams to the other , they were much amazed that they should both have dreamt exactly the same about their son , and the King said to his wife , ` This is clearly a sign from heaven that we should send our son out into the world in order that he may come home the great Sun-Hero , as the Red Girl said , not only in name but in deed . '
19 The Queen consented with many tears , and the King at once bade his son set forth in search of the Tree of the Sun , from which he was to pluck a golden apple .
20 The Prince was delighted at the prospect , and set out on his travels that very day .
21 For a long time he wandered all through the world , and it was not till the ninety-ninth day after he started that he found an old XXXXX who was able to tell him where the Tree of the Sun grew .	man		apple|body|death|feet|garments|hut|man|prospect|red|return

1 said the Soldier .
2 ` But what am I to give you , old Witch ; for surely you are not going to do this for nothing ? '
3 ` Yes , I am ! '
4 replied the Witch .
5 ` Not a single farthing will I take !
6 For me you shall bring nothing but an old tinder-box which my grandmother forgot last time she was down there . '
7 ` Well , tie the rope round my waist !
8 ` said the Soldier .
9 ` Here it is , ' said the Witch , ` and here is my blue-check apron . '
10 Then the Soldier climbed up the tree , let himself down through the hole , and found himself standing , as the Witch had said , underground in the large hall , where the three hundred lamps were burning .
11 Well , he opened the first door .
12 Ugh !
13 there sat the dog with eyes as big as saucers glaring at him .
14 ` You are a fine fellow ! '
15 said the Soldier , and put him on the Witch 's apron , took as much copper as his pockets could hold ; then he shut the chest , put the dog on it again , and went into the second room .
16 Sure enough there sat the dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels .
17 ` You had better not look at me so hard ! '
18 said the Soldier .
19 ` Your eyes will come out of their sockets ! '
20 And then he set the dog on the apron .
21 When he saw all the silver in the chest , he threw away the copper he had taken , and filled his XXXXX and knapsack with nothing but silver .	pockets		copper|dog|door|hall|hole|nothing|pockets|standing|time|tree

1 Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
2 Soo -- oop of the e -- e -- evening , Beautiful , beautiful Soup !
3 ` Beautiful Soup !
4 Who cares for fish , Game , or any other dish ?
5 Who would not give all else for two Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup ?
6 Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup ?
7 Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
8 Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
9 Soo -- oop of the e -- e -- evening , Beautiful , beauti -- FUL SOUP ! '
10 ` Chorus again ! '
11 cried the Gryphon , and the Mock Turtle had just begun to repeat it , when a cry of ` The trial 's beginning ! '
12 was heard in the distance .
13 ` Come on ! '
14 cried the Gryphon , and , taking Alice by the hand , it hurried off , without waiting for the end of the song .
15 ` What trial is it ? '
16 Alice panted as she ran ; but the Gryphon only answered ` Come on ! '
17 and ran the faster , while more and more faintly came , carried on the breeze that followed them , the melancholy words : -- ` Soo -- oop of the e -- e -- evening , Beautiful , beautiful Soup ! '
18 CHAPTER XI .
19 Who Stole the Tarts ?
20 The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived , with a great crowd assembled about them -- all sorts of little birds and beasts , as well as the whole pack of cards : the Knave was standing before them , in chains , with a soldier on each side to guard him ; and near the King was the White Rabbit , with a trumpet in one hand , and a scroll of parchment in the other .
21 In the very middle of the court was a table , with a large XXXXX of tarts upon it : they looked so good , that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them -- ' I wish they 'd get the trial done , ' she thought , ` and hand round the refreshments ! '	dish		Beau|SOUP|beasts|breeze|crowd|dish|distance|fish|sorts|trial

1 `` A boy who can face a full Keddah at his age does not end in jails .
2 See , little one , here are four annas to spend in sweetmeats because thou hast a little head under that great thatch of hair .
3 In time thou mayest become a hunter too . ''
4 Big Toomai scowled more than ever .
5 `` Remember , though , that Keddahs are not good for children to play in , '' Petersen Sahib went on .
6 `` Must I never go there , Sahib ? ''
7 asked Little Toomai with a big gasp .
8 `` Yes . ''
9 Petersen Sahib smiled again .
10 `` When thou hast seen the elephants dance .
11 That is the proper time .
12 Come to me when thou hast seen the elephants dance , and then I will let thee go into all the Keddahs . ''
13 There was another roar of laughter , for that is an old joke among elephant-catchers , and it means just never .
14 There are great cleared flat places hidden away in the forests that are called elephants ' ball-rooms , but even these are only found by accident , and no man has ever seen the elephants dance .
15 When a driver boasts of his skill and bravery the other drivers say , `` And when didst thou see the elephants dance ? ''
16 Kala Nag put Little Toomai down , and he bowed to the earth again and went away with his father , and gave the silver four-anna piece to his mother , who was nursing his baby brother , and they all were put up on Kala Nag 's back , and the line of grunting , squealing elephants rolled down the hill path to the plains .
17 It was a very lively march on account of the new elephants , who gave trouble at every ford , and needed coaxing or beating every other minute .
18 Big Toomai prodded Kala Nag spitefully , for he was very angry , but Little Toomai was too happy to speak .
19 Petersen Sahib had noticed him , and given him money , so he felt as a private soldier would feel if he had been called out of the ranks and praised by his commander-in-chief .
20 `` What did Petersen Sahib mean by the elephant dance ? ''
21 he said , at last , softly to his XXXXX .	mother		boy|bravery|forests|jails|man|money|mother|places|silver|time

1 He has eyes like red fire .
2 By my honor , Messua , he is not unlike thy boy that was taken by the tiger . ''
3 `` Let me look , '' said a woman with heavy copper rings on her wrists and ankles , and she peered at Mowgli under the palm of her hand .
4 `` Indeed he is not .
5 He is thinner , but he has the very look of my boy . ''
6 The priest was a clever man , and he knew that Messua was wife to the richest villager in the place .
7 So he looked up at the sky for a minute and said solemnly : `` What the jungle has taken the jungle has restored .
8 Take the boy into thy house , my sister , and forget not to honor the priest who sees so far into the lives of men . ''
9 `` By the Bull that bought me , '' said Mowgli to himself , `` but all this talking is like another looking-over by the Pack !
10 Well , if I am a man , a man I must become . ''
11 The crowd parted as the woman beckoned Mowgli to her hut , where there was a red lacquered bedstead , a great earthen grain chest with funny raised patterns on it , half a dozen copper cooking pots , an image of a Hindu god in a little alcove , and on the wall a real looking glass , such as they sell at the country fairs .
12 She gave him a long drink of milk and some bread , and then she laid her hand on his head and looked into his eyes ; for she thought perhaps that he might be her real son come back from the jungle where the tiger had taken him .
13 So she said , `` Nathoo , O Nathoo ! ''
14 Mowgli did not show that he knew the name .
15 `` Dost thou not remember the day when I gave thee thy new shoes ? ''
16 She touched his foot , and it was almost as hard as horn .
17 `` No , '' she said sorrowfully , `` those feet have never worn shoes , but thou art very like my Nathoo , and thou shalt be my son . ''
18 Mowgli was uneasy , because he had never been under a roof before .
19 But as he looked at the thatch , he saw that he could tear it out any time if he wanted to get away , and that the window had no fastenings .
20 `` What is the good of a man , '' he said to himself at last , `` if he does not understand man 's talk ?
21 Now I am as silly and dumb as a man would be with us in the XXXXX .	jungle		O|art|boy|day|eyes|hut|jungle|look|roof|shoes

1 ` Now you must empty all the salt into the porridge-pot , ' said Snati .
2 Ring did so , and soon the trolls wakened up .
3 The old hag , who was the most frightful of them all , went first to taste the porridge .
4 ` How comes this ? '
5 she said ; ` the porridge is salt !
6 I got the milk by witchcraft yesterday out of four kingdoms , and now it is salt ! '
7 All the others then came to taste the porridge , and thought it nice , but after they had finished it the old hag grew so thirsty that she could stand it no longer , and asked her daughter to go out and bring her some water from the river that ran near by . '
8 I wo n't go , ' said she , ` unless you lend me your bright gold piece . '
9 ` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' said the hag .
10 ` Die , then , ' said the girl .
11 ` Well , then , take it , you brat , ' said the old hag , ` and be off with you , and make haste with the water . '
12 The girl took the gold and ran out with it , and it was so bright that it shone all over the plain .
13 As soon as she came to the river she lay down to take a drink of the water , but meanwhile the two of them had got down off the roof and thrust her , head first , into the river .
14 The old hag began now to long for the water , and said that the girl would be running about with the gold piece all over the plain , so she asked her son to go and get her a drop of water . '
15 I wo n't go , ' said he , ` unless I get the gold cloak . '
16 ` Though I should die you sha n't have that , ' said the hag .
17 ` Die , then , ' said the son .
18 ` Well , then , take it , ' said the old hag , ` and be off with you , but you must make haste with the water . '
19 He put on the cloak , and when he came outside it shone so bright that he could see to go with it .
20 On reaching the river he went to take a drink like his sister , but at that moment Ring and Snati sprang upon him , took the cloak from him , and threw him into the river .
21 The old hag could stand the thirst no longer , and asked her husband to go for a XXXXX for her ; the brats , she said , were of course running about and playing themselves , just as she had expected they would , little wretches that they were . '	drink		Ring|drink|girl|haste|head|others|plain|river|sister|son

1 He felt sure that Johnny would never have acted as he had , and if Chester now had one dear ambition on earth , it was to be as good and manly a fellow as Johnny must have been .
2 But he could never be that as long as he kept the truth about himself from Miss Salome .
3 `` That boy has got something on his mind , '' said the terrible Clemantiny , who , Chester felt convinced , could see through a stone wall .
4 `` Nonsense !
5 What could he have on his mind ? ''
6 said Miss Salome .
7 But she said it a little anxiously .
8 She , too , had noticed Chester 's absent ways and abstracted face .
9 `` Goodness me , I do n't know !
10 I do n't suppose he has robbed a bank or murdered anybody .
11 But he is worrying over something , as plain as plain . ''
12 `` He is getting on very well at school , '' said Miss Salome .
13 `` His teacher says so , and he is very eager to learn .
14 I do n't know what can be troubling him . ''
15 She was fated not to know for a fortnight longer .
16 During that time Chester fought out his struggle with himself , and conquered .
17 He must tell Miss Salome , he decided , with a long sigh .
18 He knew that it would mean going back to Upton and Aunt Harriet and the old , hard life , but he would not sail under false colours any longer .
19 * * * * * Chester went into the kitchen one afternoon when he came home from school , with his lips set and his jaws even squarer than usual .
20 Miss Salome was making some of her famous taffy , and Clemantiny was spinning yarn on the big wheel .
21 `` Miss Salome , '' said Chester desperately , `` if you 're not too busy , there is XXXXX I 'd like to tell you . ''	something		Goodness|face|life|mind|plain|sigh|something|taffy|time|ways

1 Is it difficult ? ''
2 There was a clamor of scores of voices , saying : `` What matter ?
3 He will die in the winter rains .
4 He will scorch in the sun .
5 What harm can a naked frog do us ?
6 Let him run with the Pack .
7 Where is the bull , Bagheera ?
8 Let him be accepted . ''
9 And then came Akela 's deep bay , crying : `` Look well -- look well , O Wolves ! ''
10 Mowgli was still deeply interested in the pebbles , and he did not notice when the wolves came and looked at him one by one .
11 At last they all went down the hill for the dead bull , and only Akela , Bagheera , Baloo , and Mowgli 's own wolves were left .
12 Shere Khan roared still in the night , for he was very angry that Mowgli had not been handed over to him .
13 `` Ay , roar well , '' said Bagheera , under his whiskers , `` for the time will come when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune , or I know nothing of man . ''
14 `` It was well done , '' said Akela .
15 `` Men and their cubs are very wise .
16 He may be a help in time . ''
17 `` Truly , a help in time of need ; for none can hope to lead the Pack forever , '' said Bagheera .
18 Akela said nothing .
19 He was thinking of the time that comes to every leader of every pack when his strength goes from him and he gets feebler and feebler , till at last he is killed by the wolves and a new leader comes up -- to be killed in his turn .
20 `` Take him away , '' he said to Father Wolf , `` and train him as befits one of the Free People . ''
21 And that is how Mowgli was entered into the Seeonee Wolf Pack for the price of a XXXXX and on Baloo 's good word .	bull		bay|befits|bull|cubs|frog|leader|pack|pebbles|sun|thing

1 I 've had my field a good bit longer than that , but maybe the time will come yet .
2 Meanwhile I rejoice in the fact that I am a landed proprietor to the extent of four acres . ''
3 Miss Cordelia had thought of converting her field into a playground for the factory children and asking detachments of them over on Saturday afternoon .
4 But she knew that her Point Pleasant neighbours would object to this , so that project was dropped .
5 When Miss Cordelia pushed open her little gate , hung crookedly in a very compact and prim spruce hedge , she stopped in amazement and said , `` Well , for pity 's sake ! ''
6 Cynthia Ann Flemming , who lived on the other side of the spruce hedge , now came hurrying over .
7 `` Good evening , Cordelia .
8 I have a letter that was left with me for you . ''
9 `` But -- that -- horse , '' said Miss Cordelia , with a long breath between every word .
10 `` Where did he come from ?
11 Tied at my front door -- and he 's eaten the tops off every one of my geraniums !
12 Where 's his owner or rider or something ? ''
13 The horse in question was a mild-eyed , rather good-looking quadruped , tied by a halter to the elm at Miss Cordelia 's door and contentedly munching a mouthful of geranium stalks .
14 Cynthia Ann came through the hedge with the letter .
15 `` Maybe this will explain , '' she said .
16 `` Same boy brought it as brought the horse -- a little freckly chap mostly all grin and shirtsleeves .
17 Said he was told to take the letter and horse to Miss Cordelia Herry , Elm Street , Point Pleasant , and he could n't wait .
18 So he tied the creature in there and left the letter with me .
19 He came half an hour ago .
20 Well , he has played havoc with your geraniums and no mistake . ''
21 Miss Cordelia opened and read her XXXXX .	letter		Said|amazement|boy|field|grin|letter|owner|rider|sake|time

1 ` You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question , ' added the Gryphon ; and then they both sat silent and looked at poor Alice , who felt ready to sink into the earth .
2 At last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle , ` Drive on , old fellow !
3 Do n't be all day about it ! '
4 and he went on in these words : ` Yes , we went to school in the sea , though you may n't believe it -- ' ' I never said I did n't ! '
5 interrupted Alice .
6 ` You did , ' said the Mock Turtle .
7 ` Hold your tongue ! '
8 added the Gryphon , before Alice could speak again .
9 The Mock Turtle went on .
10 ` We had the best of educations -- in fact , we went to school every day -- ' ` I 'VE been to a day-school , too , ' said Alice ; ` you need n't be so proud as all that . '
11 ` With extras ? '
12 asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously .
13 ` Yes , ' said Alice , ` we learned French and music . '
14 ` And washing ? '
15 said the Mock Turtle .
16 ` Certainly not ! '
17 said Alice indignantly .
18 ` Ah !
19 then yours was n't a really good school , ' said the Mock Turtle in a tone of great relief .
20 ` Now at OURS they had at the end of the bill , `` French , music , AND WASHING -- extra . '' '
21 ` You could n't have wanted it much , ' said Alice ; ` living at the bottom of the XXXXX . ' '	sea		WASHING|bill|earth|end|extras|fact|fellow|music|sea|tongue

1 In the meantime I will slip in among the hens through a hole in the wall and give them a good chase , so that the noise they make will arouse the royal henwives , and they will come to see what is the matter .
2 When they see the horses they will at once imagine them to be the cause of the disturbance , and will drive them out .
3 Then you must lay hands on the mare and foal and catch them .
4 All turned out exactly as the sly fox had foreseen .
5 The Prince swung himself on the mare , seized the foal by its bridle , and hurried home .
6 While he was riding over the heath in the highest of spirits the mare suddenly said to her rider : ` You are the first person who has ever succeeded in outwitting the old witch Corva , and now you may ask what reward you like for your service .
7 If you promise never to betray me I will give you a piece of advice which you will do well to follow . '
8 The Prince promised never to betray her confidence , and the mare continued : ` Ask nothing else as a reward than my foal , for it has not its like in the world , and is not to be bought for love or money ; for it can go from one end of the earth to another in a few minutes .
9 Of course the cunning Corva will do her best to dissuade you from taking the foal , and will tell you that it is both idle and sickly ; but do not believe her , and stick to your point . '
10 Iwanich longed to possess such an animal , and promised the mare to follow her advice .
11 This time Corva received him in the most friendly manner , and set a sumptuous repast before him .
12 As soon as he had finished she asked him what reward he demanded for his year 's service .
13 ` Nothing more nor less , ' replied the Prince , ` than the foal of your mare . '
14 The witch pretended to be much astonished at his request , and said that he deserved something much better than the foal , for the beast was lazy and nervous , blind in one eye , and , in short , was quite worthless .
15 But the Prince knew what he wanted , and when the old witch saw that he had made up his mind to have the foal , she said , ' I am obliged to keep my promise and to hand you over the foal ; and as I know who you are and what you want , I will tell you in what way the animal will be useful to you .
16 The man in the cauldron of boiling pitch , whom you set free , is a mighty magician ; through your curiosity and thoughtlessness Militza came into his power , and he has transported her and her castle and belongings into a distant country .
17 ` You are the only person who can kill him ; and in consequence he fears you to such an extent that he has set spies to watch you , and they report your movements to him daily .
18 ` When you have reached him , beware of speaking a single word to him , or you will fall into the power of his friends .
19 Seize him at once by the beard and dash him to the ground . '
20 Iwanich thanked the old witch , mounted his foal , put spurs to its sides , and they flew like lightning through the air .
21 Already it was growing dark , when Iwanich perceived some figures in the distance ; they soon came up to them , and then the Prince saw that it was the XXXXX and his friends who were driving through the air in a carriage drawn by owls .	magician		country|eye|foal|magician|mare|matter|point|promise|sides|way

1 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
2 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
3 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
4 The hunter 's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .
5 Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon , but it passed at last , and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond , combed her black hair with a golden comb , and when she had finished , placed the comb on the bank ; then she watched the water impatiently .
6 Soon she heard a rushing sound , and a big wave rose suddenly and swept the comb off the bank , and a minute after the head of her husband rose from the pond and gazed sadly at her .
7 But immediately another wave came , and the head sank back into the water without having said a word .
8 The pond lay still and motionless , glittering in the moonshine , and the hunter 's wife was not a bit better off than she had been before .
9 In despair she wandered about for days and nights , and at last , worn out by fatigue , she sank once more into a deep sleep , and dreamt exactly the same dream about the old witch .
10 So next morning she went again to the flowery meadow and sought the witch in her hut , and told her of her grief .
11 The old woman counselled her to go to the mill-pond the next full moon and play upon a golden flute , and then to lay the flute on the bank .
12 As soon as the next moon was full the hunter 's wife went to the mill-pond , played on a golden flute , and when she had finished placed it on the bank .
13 Then a rushing sound was heard , and a wave swept the flute off the bank , and soon the head of the hunter appeared and rose up higher and higher till he was half out of the water .
14 Then he gazed sadly at his wife and stretched out his arms towards her .
15 But another rushing wave arose and dragged him under once more .
16 The hunter 's wife , who had stood on the bank full of joy and hope , sank into despair when she saw her husband snatched away again before her eyes .
17 But for her comfort she dreamt the same dream a third time , and betook herself once more to the old witch 's hut in the flowery meadow .
18 This time the old woman told her to go the next full moon to the mill-pond , and to spin there with a golden spinning-wheel , and then to leave the spinning-wheel on the bank .
19 The hunter 's wife did as she was advised , and the first night the moon was full she sat and spun with a golden spinning-wheel , and then left the wheel on the bank .
20 In a few minutes a rushing sound was heard in the waters , and a wave swept the spinning-wheel from the bank .
21 Immediately the head of the hunter rose up from the XXXXX , getting higher and higher each moment , till at length he stepped on to the bank and fell on his wife 's neck .	pond		flute|hut|joy|moon|pond|sleep|sound|time|wife|woman

1 `` How do you know where to go to ? ''
2 he panted .
3 The leader of the school rolled his white eye and ducked under .
4 `` My tail tingles , youngster , '' he said .
5 `` That means there 's a gale behind me .
6 Come along !
7 When you 're south of the Sticky Water -LSB- he meant the Equator -RSB- and your tail tingles , that means there 's a gale in front of you and you must head north .
8 Come along !
9 The water feels bad here . ''
10 This was one of very many things that Kotick learned , and he was always learning .
11 Matkah taught him to follow the cod and the halibut along the under-sea banks and wrench the rockling out of his hole among the weeds ; how to skirt the wrecks lying a hundred fathoms below water and dart like a rifle bullet in at one porthole and out at another as the fishes ran ; how to dance on the top of the waves when the lightning was racing all over the sky , and wave his flipper politely to the stumpy-tailed Albatross and the Man-of-war Hawk as they went down the wind ; how to jump three or four feet clear of the water like a dolphin , flippers close to the side and tail curved ; to leave the flying fish alone because they are all bony ; to take the shoulder-piece out of a cod at full speed ten fathoms deep , and never to stop and look at a boat or a ship , but particularly a row-boat .
12 At the end of six months what Kotick did not know about deep-sea fishing was not worth the knowing .
13 And all that time he never set flipper on dry ground .
14 One day , however , as he was lying half asleep in the warm water somewhere off the Island of Juan Fernandez , he felt faint and lazy all over , just as human people do when the spring is in their legs , and he remembered the good firm beaches of Novastoshnah seven thousand miles away , the games his companions played , the smell of the seaweed , the seal roar , and the fighting .
15 That very minute he turned north , swimming steadily , and as he went on he met scores of his mates , all bound for the same place , and they said : `` Greeting , Kotick !
16 This year we are all holluschickie , and we can dance the Fire-dance in the breakers off Lukannon and play on the new grass .
17 But where did you get that coat ? ''
18 Kotick 's fur was almost pure white now , and though he felt very proud of it , he only said , `` Swim quickly !
19 My bones are aching for the land . ''
20 And so they all came to the beaches where they had been born , and heard the old seals , their fathers , fighting in the rolling mist .
21 That night Kotick danced the Fire-dance with the yearling XXXXX .	seals		banks|fathers|gale|land|leader|mates|mist|seals|skirt|youngster

1 exclaimed Martin .
2 ` Well , so be it , if you will not take less ; ' and , taking the money out of his pocket , he handed it over in exchange for the dog , whose name was Schurka .
3 When Martin got home , his mother met him with the question : ` Well , what have you bought ? '
4 ` Schurka , the dog , ' replied Martin , pointing to his new possession .
5 Whereupon his mother became very angry , and abused him roundly .
6 He ought to be ashamed of himself , when there was scarcely a handful of meal in the house , to have spent the money on a useless brute like that .
7 On the following day she sent him back to the town , saying , ` Here , take our last hundred florins , and buy provisions with them .
8 I have just emptied the last grains of meal out of the chest , and baked a bannock ; but it wo n't last over to-morrow . '
9 Just as Martin was entering the town he met a rough-looking peasant who was dragging a cat after him by a string which was fastened round the poor beast 's neck .
10 ` Stop , ' cried Martin ; ` where are you dragging that poor cat ? ' '
11 I mean to drown him , ' was the answer .
12 ` What harm has the poor beast done ? '
13 said Martin .
14 ` It has just killed a goose , ' replied the peasant .
15 ` Do n't drown him , sell him to me instead , ' begged Martin .
16 ` Not for a hundred florins , ' was the answer .
17 ` Surely for a hundred florins you 'll sell it ? '
18 said Martin .
19 ` See !
20 here is the money ; ' and , so saying , he handed him the hundred florins , which the peasant pocketed , and Martin took possession of the cat , which was called Waska .
21 When he reached his XXXXX his mother greeted him with the question : ` Well , what have you brought back ? ' '	home		answer|day|dog|exchange|goose|home|neck|provisions|string|town

1 My tail 's all muddy , and he 'll have two hours ' hard work dressing me for parade . ''
2 The big parade of all the thirty thousand men was held that afternoon , and Vixen and I had a good place close to the Viceroy and the Amir of Afghanistan , with high , big black hat of astrakhan wool and the great diamond star in the center .
3 The first part of the review was all sunshine , and the regiments went by in wave upon wave of legs all moving together , and guns all in a line , till our eyes grew dizzy .
4 Then the cavalry came up , to the beautiful cavalry canter of `` Bonnie Dundee , '' and Vixen cocked her ear where she sat on the dog-cart .
5 The second squadron of the Lancers shot by , and there was the troop-horse , with his tail like spun silk , his head pulled into his breast , one ear forward and one back , setting the time for all his squadron , his legs going as smoothly as waltz music .
6 Then the big guns came by , and I saw Two Tails and two other elephants harnessed in line to a forty-pounder siege gun , while twenty yoke of oxen walked behind .
7 The seventh pair had a new yoke , and they looked rather stiff and tired .
8 Last came the screw guns , and Billy the mule carried himself as though he commanded all the troops , and his harness was oiled and polished till it winked .
9 I gave a cheer all by myself for Billy the mule , but he never looked right or left .
10 The rain began to fall again , and for a while it was too misty to see what the troops were doing .
11 They had made a big half circle across the plain , and were spreading out into a line .
12 That line grew and grew and grew till it was three-quarters of a mile long from wing to wing -- one solid wall of men , horses , and guns .
13 Then it came on straight toward the Viceroy and the Amir , and as it got nearer the ground began to shake , like the deck of a steamer when the engines are going fast .
14 Unless you have been there you can not imagine what a frightening effect this steady come-down of troops has on the spectators , even when they know it is only a review .
15 I looked at the Amir .
16 Up till then he had not shown the shadow of a sign of astonishment or anything else .
17 But now his eyes began to get bigger and bigger , and he picked up the reins on his horse 's neck and looked behind him .
18 For a minute it seemed as though he were going to draw his sword and slash his way out through the English men and women in the carriages at the back .
19 Then the advance stopped dead , the ground stood still , the whole line saluted , and thirty bands began to play all together .
20 That was the end of the review , and the regiments went off to their camps in the rain , and an infantry band struck up with -- The animals went in two by two , Hurrah !
21 The XXXXX went in two by two , The elephant and the battery mul ' , and they all got into the Ark For to get out of the rain !	animals		animals|back|band|ear|effect|neck|parade|spectators|steamer|sword

1 they all said , and the man who had brought the clockwork bird received on the spot the title of ` Bringer of the Imperial First Nightingale . '
2 ` Now they must sing together ; what a duet we shall have ! '
3 And so they sang together , but their voices did not blend , for the real Nightingale sang in her way and the clockwork bird sang waltzes .
4 ` It is not its fault ! '
5 said the bandmaster ; ` it keeps very good time and is quite after my style ! '
6 Then the artificial bird had to sing alone .
7 It gave just as much pleasure as the real one , and then it was so much prettier to look at ; it sparkled like bracelets and necklaces .
8 Three-and-thirty times it sang the same piece without being tired .
9 People would like to have heard it again , but the Emperor thought that the living Nightingale should sing now -- but where was she ?
10 No one had noticed that she had flown out of the open window away to her green woods .
11 ` What SHALL we do ! '
12 said the Emperor .
13 And all the Court scolded , and said that the Nightingale was very ungrateful .
14 ` But we have still the best bird ! '
15 they said and the artificial bird had to sing again , and that was the thirty-fourth time they had heard the same piece .
16 But they did not yet know it by heart ; it was much too difficult .
17 And the bandmaster praised the bird tremendously ; yes , he assured them it was better than a real nightingale , not only because of its beautiful plumage and diamonds , but inside as well .
18 ` For see , my Lords and Ladies and your Imperial Majesty , with the real Nightingale one can never tell what will come out , but all is known about the artificial bird !
19 You can explain it , you can open it and show people where the waltzes lie , how they go , and how one follows the other ! '
20 ` That 's just what we think ! '
21 said everyone ; and the bandmaster received permission to show the bird to the XXXXX the next Sunday .	people		Nightingale|diamonds|duet|fault|one|people|piece|pleasure|time|way

1 ` Never fear , dear master .
2 Schurka and I will look after you , ' said Waska .
3 And in another moment she had climbed down and brought him back a roll , and then another , and another , till she had brought him the whole tray-load .
4 Upon which she said : ` Dear master , Schurka and I are going off to a distant kingdom at the utmost ends of the earth to fetch you back your magic ring .
5 You must be careful that the rolls last till our return . '
6 And Waska took leave of her beloved master , and set off with Schurka on their journey .
7 On and on they travelled , looking always to right and left for traces of the Princess , following up every track , making inquiries of every cat and dog they met , listening to the talk of every wayfarer they passed ; and at last they heard that the kingdom at the utmost ends of the earth where the twelve youths had borne the Princess was not very far off .
8 And at last one day they reached that distant kingdom , and , going at once to the palace , they began to make friends with all the dogs and cats in the place , and to question them about the Princess and the magic ring ; but no one could tell them much about either .
9 Now one day it chanced that Waska had gone down to the palace cellar to hunt for mice and rats , and seeing an especially fat , well-fed mouse , she pounced upon it , buried her claws in its soft fur , and was just going to gobble it up , when she was stopped by the pleading tones of the little creature , saying , ` If you will only spare my life I may be of great service to you .
10 I will do everything in my power for you ; for I am the King of the Mice , and if I perish the whole race will die out . '
11 ` So be it , ' said Waska . '
12 I will spare your life ; but in return you must do something for me .
13 In this castle there lives a Princess , the wicked wife of my dear master .
14 She has stolen away his magic ring .
15 You must get it away from her at whatever cost ; do you hear ?
16 Till you have done this I wo n't take my claws out of your fur . '
17 ` Good ! '
18 replied the mouse ; ' I will do what you ask . '
19 And , so saying , he summoned all the mice in his kingdom together .
20 A countless number of mice , small and big , brown and grey , assembled , and formed a circle round their king , who was a prisoner under Waska 's claws .
21 Turning to them he said : ` Dear and faithful subjects , who ever among you will steal the magic ring from the strange Princess will release me from a cruel death ; and I shall honour him above all the other mice in the XXXXX . '	kingdom		cats|ends|everything|fur|kingdom|life|mouse|place|roll|wife

1 The second was also finely dressed , but younger in appearance , and also sat on a chair , but it was not so grand as the first one 's .
2 The third stood beside them , and was very pretty to look at ; she had a green cloak over her other clothes , and it was easy to see that she was maid to the other two .
3 After the King had looked at them for a little he went forward and saluted them .
4 The one that sat on the golden chair asked him who he was and where he was going ; and he told her all the story -- how he was a king , and had lost his queen , and was now on his way to Hetland the Good , to ask the Queen of that country in marriage .
5 She answered that fortune had contrived this wonderfully , for pirates had plundered Hetland and killed the King , and she had fled from the land in terror , and had come hither after great trouble , and she was the very person he was looking for , and the others were her daughter and maid .
6 The King immediately asked her hand ; she gladly received his proposal and accepted him at once .
7 Thereafter they all set out , and made their way to the ship ; and after that nothing is told of their voyage until the King reached his own country .
8 There he made a great feast , and celebrated his marriage with this woman ; and after that things are quiet for a time .
9 Hermod and Hadvor took but little notice of the Queen and her daughter , but , on the other hand , Hadvor and the Queen 's maid , whose name was Olof , were very friendly , and Olof came often to visit Hadvor in her castle .
10 Before long the King went out to war , and no sooner was he away than the Queen came to talk with Hermod , and said that she wanted him to marry her daughter .
11 Hermod told her straight and plain that he would not do so , at which the Queen grew terribly angry , and said that in that case neither should he have Hadvor , for she would now lay this spell on him , that he should go to a desert island and there be a lion by day and a man by night .
12 He should also think always of Hadvor , which would cause him all the more sorrow , and from this spell he should never be freed until Hadvor burned the lion 's skin , and that would not happen very soon .
13 As soon as the Queen had finished her speech Hermod replied that he also laid a spell on her , and that was , that as soon as he was freed from her enchantments she should become a rat and her daughter a mouse , and fight with each other in the hall until he killed them with his sword .
14 After this Hermod disappeared , and no one knew what had become of him ; the Queen caused search to be made for him , but he could nowhere be found .
15 One time , when Olof was in the castle beside Hadvor , she asked the Princess if she knew where Hermod had gone to .
16 At this Hadvor became very sad , and said that she did not . '
17 I shall tell you then , ' said Olof , ` for I know all about it .
18 Hermod has disappeared through the wicked devices of the Queen , for she is a witch , and so is her daughter , though they have put on these beautiful forms .
19 Because Hermod would not fall in with the Queen 's plans , and marry her daughter , she has laid a spell on him , to go on an island and be a lion by day and a man by night , and never be freed from this until you burn the lion 's skin .
20 Besides , ' said Olof , ` she has looked out a match for you ; she has a brother in the Underworld , a three-headed Giant , whom she means to turn into a beautiful prince and get him married to you .
21 This is no new thing for the Queen ; she took me away from my parents ' house and compelled me to serve her ; but she has never done me any harm , for the green XXXXX I wear protects me against all mischief .	cloak		cloak|forms|man|name|pirates|prince|proposal|rat|sorrow|witch

1 But we do not notice them even when they throw nuts and filth on our heads . ''
2 He had hardly spoken when a shower of nuts and twigs spattered down through the branches ; and they could hear coughings and howlings and angry jumpings high up in the air among the thin branches .
3 `` The Monkey-People are forbidden , '' said Baloo , `` forbidden to the Jungle-People .
4 Remember . ''
5 `` Forbidden , '' said Bagheera , `` but I still think Baloo should have warned thee against them . ''
6 `` I -- I ?
7 How was I to guess he would play with such dirt .
8 The Monkey People !
9 Faugh ! ''
10 A fresh shower came down on their heads and the two trotted away , taking Mowgli with them .
11 What Baloo had said about the monkeys was perfectly true .
12 They belonged to the tree-tops , and as beasts very seldom look up , there was no occasion for the monkeys and the Jungle-People to cross each other 's path .
13 But whenever they found a sick wolf , or a wounded tiger , or bear , the monkeys would torment him , and would throw sticks and nuts at any beast for fun and in the hope of being noticed .
14 Then they would howl and shriek senseless songs , and invite the Jungle-People to climb up their trees and fight them , or would start furious battles over nothing among themselves , and leave the dead monkeys where the Jungle-People could see them .
15 They were always just going to have a leader , and laws and customs of their own , but they never did , because their memories would not hold over from day to day , and so they compromised things by making up a saying , `` What the Bandar-log think now the jungle will think later , '' and that comforted them a great deal .
16 None of the beasts could reach them , but on the other hand none of the beasts would notice them , and that was why they were so pleased when Mowgli came to play with them , and they heard how angry Baloo was .
17 They never meant to do any more -- the Bandar-log never mean anything at all ; but one of them invented what seemed to him a brilliant idea , and he told all the others that Mowgli would be a useful person to keep in the tribe , because he could weave sticks together for protection from the wind ; so , if they caught him , they could make him teach them .
18 Of course Mowgli , as a woodcutter 's child , inherited all sorts of instincts , and used to make little huts of fallen branches without thinking how he came to do it .
19 The Monkey-People , watching in the trees , considered his play most wonderful .
20 This time , they said , they were really going to have a leader and become the wisest people in the jungle -- so wise that everyone else would notice and envy them .
21 Therefore they followed Baloo and Bagheera and Mowgli through the jungle very quietly till it was XXXXX for the midday nap , and Mowgli , who was very much ashamed of himself , slept between the Panther and the Bear , resolving to have no more to do with the Monkey People .	time		beasts|dirt|howl|leader|others|songs|tiger|time|tribe|wind

1 Half-dead with fright , and trembling in every limb , the poor children lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dared not close their eyes , and scarcely ventured to breathe .
2 In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips .
3 Then the witch left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood .
4 As soon as she had gone out of sight the children took the comb and the handkerchief , and , taking one another by the hand , they started and ran , and ran , and ran .
5 And first they met the watch-dog , who was going to leap on them and tear them to pieces ; but they threw the remains of their bread to him , and he ate them and wagged his tail .
6 Then they were hindered by the birch-trees , whose branches almost put their eyes out .
7 But the little sister tied the twigs together with a piece of ribbon , and they got past safely , and , after running through the wood , came out on to the open fields .
8 In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen and tangling the threads as it wove .
9 And the witch returned to see how the children were getting on ; and she crept up to the window , and whispered : ` Are you weaving , my little dear ? '
10 ` Yes , granny , I am weaving , ' answered the cat .
11 When the witch saw that the children had escaped her , she was furious , and , hitting the cat with a porringer , she said : ` Why did you let the children leave the hut ?
12 Why did you not scratch their eyes out ? '
13 But the cat curled up its tail and put its back up , and answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never even threw me a bone , but the dear children gave me their own piece of ham . '
14 Then the witch was furious with the watch-dog and with the birch-trees , because they had let the children pass .
15 But the dog answered : ' I have served you all these years and you never gave me so much as a hard crust , but the dear children gave me their own loaf of bread . '
16 And the birch rustled its leaves , and said : ' I have served you longer than I can say , and you never tied a bit of twine even round my branches ; and the dear children bound them up with their brightest ribbons . '
17 So the witch saw there was no help to be got from her old servants , and that the best thing she could do was to mount on her broom and set off in pursuit of the children .
18 And as the children ran they heard the sound of the broom sweeping the ground close behind them , so instantly they threw the handkerchief down over their shoulder , and in a moment a deep , broad river flowed behind them .
19 When the witch came up to it , it took her a long time before she found a place which she could ford over on her broom-stick ; but at last she got across , and continued the chase faster than before .
20 And as the children ran they heard a sound , and the little sister put her ear to the ground , and heard the broom sweeping the earth close behind them ; so , quick as thought , she threw the comb down on the ground , and in an instant , as the cat had said , a dense forest sprung up , in which the roots and branches were so closely intertwined , that it was impossible to force a way through it .
21 So when the witch came up to it on her XXXXX she found that there was nothing for it but to turn round and go back to her hut .	broom		birch|bit|broom|dog|girl|granny|meantime|river|shoulder|witch

1 He was cunning enough , however , to conceal his feelings and to make no direct answer , but he only asked the maiden , as if carelessly , what was remarkable about the ring ?
2 She answered , ` No mortal is able entirely to understand the power of this ring , because no one thoroughly understands the secret signs engraved upon it .
3 But even with my half-knowledge I can work great wonders .
4 If I put the ring upon the little finger of my left hand , then I can fly like a bird through the air wherever I wish to go .
5 If I put it on the third finger of my left hand I am invisible , and I can see everything that passes around me , though no one can see me .
6 If I put the ring upon the middle finger of my left hand , then neither fire nor water nor any sharp weapon can hurt me .
7 If I put it on the forefinger of my left hand , then I can with its help produce whatever I wish .
8 I can in a single moment build houses or anything I desire .
9 Finally , as long as I wear the ring on the thumb of my left hand , that hand is so strong that it can break down rocks and walls .
10 Besides these , the ring has other secret signs which , as I said , no one can understand .
11 No doubt it contains secrets of great importance .
12 The ring formerly belonged to King Solomon , the wisest of kings , during whose reign the wisest men lived .
13 But it is not known whether this ring was ever made by mortal hands : it is supposed that an angel gave it to the wise King . '
14 When the youth heard all this he determined to try and get possession of the ring , though he did not quite believe in all its wonderful gifts .
15 He wished the maiden would let him have it in his hand , but he did not quite like to ask her to do so , and after a while she put it back into the box .
16 A few days after they were again speaking of the magic ring , and the youth said , ' I do not think it possible that the ring can have all the power you say it has . '
17 Then the maiden opened the box and took the ring out , and it glittered as she held it like the clearest sunbeam .
18 She put it on the middle finger of her left hand , and told the youth to take a knife and try as hard as he could to cut her with it , for he would not be able to hurt her .
19 He was unwilling at first , but the maiden insisted .
20 Then he tried , at first only in play , and then seriously , to strike her with the knife , but an invisible wall of iron seemed to be between them , and the maiden stood before him laughing and unhurt .
21 Then she put the ring on her third XXXXX , and in an instant she had vanished from his eyes .	finger		air|finger|knife|maiden|one|possession|ring|speaking|weapon|youth

1 So , before he was twenty-five , he gave up being afraid , and so he was the best-loved and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of India .
2 He had carried tents , twelve hundred pounds ' weight of tents , on the march in Upper India .
3 He had been hoisted into a ship at the end of a steam crane and taken for days across the water , and made to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India , and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in Magdala , and had come back again in the steamer entitled , so the soldiers said , to the Abyssinian War medal .
4 He had seen his fellow elephants die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid , ten years later ; and afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles south to haul and pile big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein .
5 There he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was shirking his fair share of work .
6 After that he was taken off timber-hauling , and employed , with a few score other elephants who were trained to the business , in helping to catch wild elephants among the Garo hills .
7 Elephants are very strictly preserved by the Indian Government .
8 There is one whole department which does nothing else but hunt them , and catch them , and break them in , and send them up and down the country as they are needed for work .
9 Kala Nag stood ten fair feet at the shoulders , and his tusks had been cut off short at five feet , and bound round the ends , to prevent them splitting , with bands of copper ; but he could do more with those stumps than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpened ones .
10 When , after weeks and weeks of cautious driving of scattered elephants across the hills , the forty or fifty wild monsters were driven into the last stockade , and the big drop gate , made of tree trunks lashed together , jarred down behind them , Kala Nag , at the word of command , would go into that flaring , trumpeting pandemonium -LRB- generally at night , when the flicker of the torches made it difficult to judge distances -RRB- , and , picking out the biggest and wildest tusker of the mob , would hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the backs of the other elephants roped and tied the smaller ones .
11 There was nothing in the way of fighting that Kala Nag , the old wise Black Snake , did not know , for he had stood up more than once in his time to the charge of the wounded tiger , and , curling up his soft trunk to be out of harm 's way , had knocked the springing brute sideways in mid-air with a quick sickle cut of his head , that he had invented all by himself ; had knocked him over , and kneeled upon him with his huge knees till the life went out with a gasp and a howl , and there was only a fluffy striped thing on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail .
12 `` Yes , '' said Big Toomai , his driver , the son of Black Toomai who had taken him to Abyssinia , and grandson of Toomai of the Elephants who had seen him caught , `` there is nothing that the Black Snake fears except me .
13 He has seen three generations of us feed him and groom him , and he will live to see four . ''
14 `` He is afraid of me also , '' said Little Toomai , standing up to his full height of four feet , with only one rag upon him .
15 He was ten years old , the eldest son of Big Toomai , and , according to custom , he would take his father 's place on Kala Nag 's neck when he grew up , and would handle the heavy iron ankus , the elephant goad , that had been worn smooth by his father , and his grandfather , and his great-grandfather .
16 He knew what he was talking of ; for he had been born under Kala Nag 's shadow , had played with the end of his trunk before he could walk , had taken him down to water as soon as he could walk , and Kala Nag would no more have dreamed of disobeying his shrill little orders than he would have dreamed of killing him on that day when Big Toomai carried the little brown baby under Kala Nag 's tusks , and told him to salute his master that was to be .
17 `` Yes , '' said Little Toomai , `` he is afraid of me , '' and he took long strides up to Kala Nag , called him a fat old pig , and made him lift up his feet one after the other .
18 `` Wah ! ''
19 said Little Toomai , `` thou art a big elephant , '' and he wagged his fluffy head , quoting his father .
20 `` The Government may pay for elephants , but they belong to us mahouts .
21 When thou art old , Kala Nag , there will come some rich rajah , and he will buy thee from the XXXXX , on account of thy size and thy manners , and then thou wilt have nothing to do but to carry gold earrings in thy ears , and a gold howdah on thy back , and a red cloth covered with gold on thy sides , and walk at the head of the processions of the King .	Government		Elephants|Government|harm|height|iron|nothing|rag|splitting|strides|tents

1 It was they who changed the little house you saw before you into the fountain for which you are now asking , and , having turned me into a frog , they ordered me to say to the first person who came to the fountain exactly what I repeated to you .
2 But , my lord , when you stood before me , it was agony to my heart , filled as it was with thoughts of you , to appear to your eyes under so monstrous a form .
3 However , there was no help for it , and , painful as it was , I had to submit .
4 I desired your success with all my soul , not only for your own sake , but also for my own , because I could not get back my proper shape till you had become master of the beautiful bird , though I am quite ignorant as to your reason for seeking it . '
5 On this Saphir explained about the state of his father 's health , and all that has been told before .
6 On hearing this story Serpentine grew very sad , and her lovely eyes filled with tears .
7 ` Ah , my lord , ' she said , ` you know nothing of me but what you have seen in the mirror ; and I , who can not even name my parents , learn that you are a king 's son . '
8 In vain Saphir declared that love made them equal ; Serpentine would only reply : ' I love you too much to allow you to marry beneath your rank .
9 I shall be very unhappy , of course , but I shall never alter my mind .
10 If I do not find from the fairies that my birth is worthy of you , then , whatever be my feelings , I will never accept your hand . '
11 The conversation was at this point , and bid fair to last some time longer , when one of the fairies appeared in her ivory car , accompanied by a beautiful woman past her early youth .
12 At this moment the bird suddenly awakened , and , flying on to Saphir 's shoulder -LRB- which it never afterwards left -RRB- , began fondling him as well as a bird can do .
13 The fairy told Serpentine that she was quite satisfied with her conduct , and made herself very agreeable to Saphir , whom she presented to the lady she had brought with her , explaining that the lady was no other than his Aunt Aglantine , widow of Diamantino .
14 Then they all fell into each other 's arms , till the fairy mounted her chariot , placed Aglantine by her side , and Saphir and Serpentine on the front seat .
15 She also sent a message to the Prince 's attendants that they might travel slowly back to the Court of King Peridor , and that the beautiful bird had really been found .
16 This matter being comfortably arranged , she started off her chariot .
17 But in spite of the swiftness with which they flew through the air , the time passed even quicker for Saphir and Serpentine , who had so much to think about .
18 They were still quite confused with the pleasure of seeing each other , when the chariot arrived at King Peridor 's palace .
19 He had had himself carried to a room on the roof , where his nurses thought that he would die at any moment .
20 Directly the chariot drew within sight of the castle the beautiful bird took flight , and , making straight for the dying King , at once cured him of his sickness .
21 Then she resumed her natural XXXXX , and he found that the bird was no other than the Queen Constance , whom he had long believed to be dead .	shape		conversation|feelings|frog|health|message|person|roof|shape|spite|success

1 Ferko continued his way till he came to a ploughed field .
2 Here he noticed a little mouse creeping wearily along on its hind paws , for its front paws had both been broken in a trap .
3 Ferko felt so sorry for the little beast that he spoke to it in the most friendly manner , and washed its small paws with the healing water .
4 In a moment the mouse was sound and whole , and after thanking the kind physician it scampered away over the ploughed furrows .
5 Ferko again proceeded on his journey , but he had n't gone far before a queen bee flew against him , trailing one wing behind her , which had been cruelly torn in two by a big bird .
6 Ferko was no less willing to help her than he had been to help the wolf and the mouse , so he poured some healing drops over the wounded wing .
7 On the spot the queen bee was cured , and turning to Ferko she said , ' I am most grateful for your kindness , and shall reward you some day . '
8 And with these words she flew away humming , gaily .
9 Then Ferko wandered on for many a long day , and at length reached a strange kingdom .
10 Here , he thought to himself , he might as well go straight to the palace and offer his services to the King of the country , for he had heard that the King 's daughter was as beautiful as the day .
11 So he went to the royal palace , and as he entered the door the first people he saw were his two brothers who had so shamefully ill-treated him .
12 They had managed to obtain places in the King 's service , and when they recognised Ferko with his eyes and legs sound and well they were frightened to death , for they feared he would tell the King of their conduct , and that they would be hung .
13 No sooner had Ferko entered the palace than all eyes were turned on the handsome youth , and the King 's daughter herself was lost in admiration , for she had never seen anyone so handsome in her life before .
14 His brothers noticed this , and envy and jealousy were added to their fear , so much so that they determined once more to destroy him .
15 They went to the King and told him that Ferko was a wicked magician , who had come to the palace with the intention of carrying off the Princess .
16 Then the King had Ferko brought before him , and said , ` You are accused of being a magician who wishes to rob me of my daughter , and I condemn you to death ; but if you can fulfil three tasks which I shall set you to do your life shall be spared , on condition you leave the country ; but if you can not perform what I demand you shall be hung on the nearest tree . '
17 And turning to the two wicked brothers he said , ` Suggest something for him to do ; no matter how difficult , he must succeed in it or die . '
18 They did not think long , but replied , ` Let him build your Majesty in one day a more beautiful palace than this , and if he fails in the attempt let him be hung . '
19 The King was pleased with this proposal , and commanded Ferko to set to work on the following day .
20 The two brothers were delighted , for they thought they had now got rid of Ferko for ever .
21 The poor XXXXX himself was heart-broken , and cursed the hour he had crossed the boundary of the King 's domain .	youth		admiration|brothers|condition|fear|field|intention|magician|proposal|way|youth

1 The other herd children , watching with the cattle half a mile away , hurried to the village as fast as their legs could carry them , crying that the buffaloes had gone mad and run away .
2 But Mowgli 's plan was simple enough .
3 All he wanted to do was to make a big circle uphill and get at the head of the ravine , and then take the bulls down it and catch Shere Khan between the bulls and the cows ; for he knew that after a meal and a full drink Shere Khan would not be in any condition to fight or to clamber up the sides of the ravine .
4 He was soothing the buffaloes now by voice , and Akela had dropped far to the rear , only whimpering once or twice to hurry the rear-guard .
5 It was a long , long circle , for they did not wish to get too near the ravine and give Shere Khan warning .
6 At last Mowgli rounded up the bewildered herd at the head of the ravine on a grassy patch that sloped steeply down to the ravine itself .
7 From that height you could see across the tops of the trees down to the plain below ; but what Mowgli looked at was the sides of the ravine , and he saw with a great deal of satisfaction that they ran nearly straight up and down , while the vines and creepers that hung over them would give no foothold to a tiger who wanted to get out .
8 `` Let them breathe , Akela , '' he said , holding up his hand .
9 `` They have not winded him yet .
10 Let them breathe .
11 I must tell Shere Khan who comes .
12 We have him in the trap . ''
13 He put his hands to his mouth and shouted down the ravine -- it was almost like shouting down a tunnel -- and the echoes jumped from rock to rock .
14 After a long time there came back the drawling , sleepy snarl of a full-fed tiger just wakened .
15 `` Who calls ? ''
16 said Shere Khan , and a splendid peacock fluttered up out of the ravine screeching .
17 `` I , Mowgli .
18 Cattle thief , it is time to come to the Council Rock !
19 Down -- hurry them down , Akela !
20 Down , Rama , down ! ''
21 The XXXXX paused for an instant at the edge of the slope , but Akela gave tongue in the full hunting-yell , and they pitched over one after the other , just as steamers shoot rapids , the sand and stones spurting up round them .	herd		bulls|circle|drink|hand|herd|meal|time|tops|trap|voice

1 That night she went back to John and Amelia .
2 They , on their part , welcomed her back gladly , believing her to be a wronged and ill-used woman .
3 They hated Stephen Fair with a new and personal rancour .
4 The one thing they could hardly have forgiven Emily would have been the fact of her relenting towards him .
5 But she did not relent .
6 In her soul she knew that , with all her just grievances , she had been in the wrong , and for that she could not forgive him !
7 Two years after she had left Stephen Mrs. Fair died , and his widowed sister-in-law went to keep house for him .
8 If he thought of Emily he made no sign .
9 Stephen Fair never broke a word once passed .
10 Since their separation no greeting or look had ever passed between husband and wife .
11 When they met , as they occasionally did , neither impassive face changed .
12 Emily Fair had buried her love deeply .
13 In her pride and anger she would not let herself remember even where she had dug its grave .
14 And now Stephen was ill .
15 The strange woman felt a certain pride in her own inflexibility because the fact did not affect her .
16 She told herself that she could not have felt more unconcerned had he been the merest stranger .
17 Nevertheless she waited and watched for John Phillips ' homecoming .
18 At ten o'clock she heard his voice in the kitchen .
19 She leaned out of the bed and pulled open her door .
20 She heard voices below , but could not distinguish the words , so she rose and went noiselessly out into the hall , knelt down by the stair railing and listened .
21 The door of the kitchen was open below her and a narrow shaft of light struck on her white , intent XXXXX .	face		bed|face|grievances|hall|love|pride|separation|sign|voices|woman

1 Then the twins crumbled their bread on the ground , and the wrens pecked it , and chirruped and chirped .
2 And when they had eaten the last crumb they told the boy to fill up the holes of the sieve with clay , and then to draw water from the well .
3 So he did what they said , and carried the sieve full of water into the hut without spilling a drop .
4 When they entered the hut the cat was curled up on the floor .
5 So they stroked her , and fed her with ham , and said to her : ` Pussy , grey pussy , tell us how we are to get away from the witch ? '
6 Then the cat thanked them for the ham , and gave them a pocket-handkerchief and a comb , and told them that when the witch pursued them , as she certainly would , all they had to do was to throw the handkerchief on the ground and run as fast as they could .
7 As soon as the handkerchief touched the ground a deep , broad river would spring up , which would hinder the witch 's progress .
8 If she managed to get across it , they must throw the comb behind them and run for their lives , for where the comb fell a dense forest would start up , which would delay the witch so long that they would be able to get safely away .
9 The cat had scarcely finished speaking when the witch returned to see if the children had fulfilled their tasks .
10 ` Well , you have done well enough for to-day , ' she grumbled ; ` but to-morrow you 'll have something more difficult to do , and if you do n't do it well , you pampered brats , straight into the oven you go . '
11 Half-dead with fright , and trembling in every limb , the poor children lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dared not close their eyes , and scarcely ventured to breathe .
12 In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips .
13 Then the witch left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood .
14 As soon as she had gone out of sight the children took the comb and the handkerchief , and , taking one another by the hand , they started and ran , and ran , and ran .
15 And first they met the watch-dog , who was going to leap on them and tear them to pieces ; but they threw the remains of their bread to him , and he ate them and wagged his tail .
16 Then they were hindered by the birch-trees , whose branches almost put their eyes out .
17 But the little sister tied the twigs together with a piece of ribbon , and they got past safely , and , after running through the wood , came out on to the open fields .
18 In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen and tangling the threads as it wove .
19 And the witch returned to see how the children were getting on ; and she crept up to the window , and whispered : ` Are you weaving , my little dear ? '
20 ` Yes , granny , I am weaving , ' answered the cat .
21 When the XXXXX saw that the children had escaped her , she was furious , and , hitting the cat with a porringer , she said : ` Why did you let the children leave the hut ?	witch		boy|bread|comb|ham|limb|pieces|remains|tail|witch|wood

1 asked Margaret absently , wondering why there had been no letter for her that morning -- and this was the third day too !
2 Could Gilbert be ill ?
3 Or was he flirting with some other girl and forgetting her ?
4 Margaret swallowed a big lump in her throat , and resolved that she would go home next week -- no , she would n't , either -- if he was as hateful and fickle as that -- what was Aunt Beatrice saying ?
5 `` Well , I 'm -- I 'm not used to going to parties now , my dear .
6 And the truth is I have no dress fit to wear .
7 At least Bella said so , because the party was to be a very fashionable affair .
8 She said my old grey silk would n't do at all .
9 Of course she knows .
10 She had to have a new dress for it , and , we could n't both have that .
11 George could n't afford it these hard times .
12 And , as Bella said , it would be very foolish of me to get an expensive dress that would be no use to me afterward .
13 But it does n't matter .
14 And , of course , somebody had to stay with the children . ''
15 `` Of course , '' assented Margaret dreamily .
16 Mrs. Cunningham 's `` at home '' was of no particular interest .
17 The guests were all middle-aged people whom the M.P. had known in his boyhood and Margaret , in her presumptuous youth , thought it would be a very prosy affair , although it had made quite a sensation in quiet little Murraybridge , where people still called an `` at home '' a party plain and simple .
18 `` I saw Mr. Reynolds in church Sunday afternoon , '' she went on .
19 `` He is very fine-looking , I think .
20 Did you ever meet him ? ''
21 `` I used to know him very well long ago , '' answered XXXXX Beatrice , bowing still lower over her work .	Aunt		Aunt|affair|girl|guests|home|interest|lump|somebody|truth|use

1 The Queen ! '
2 and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces .
3 There was a sound of many footsteps , and Alice looked round , eager to see the Queen .
4 First came ten soldiers carrying clubs ; these were all shaped like the three gardeners , oblong and flat , with their hands and feet at the corners : next the ten courtiers ; these were ornamented all over with diamonds , and walked two and two , as the soldiers did .
5 After these came the royal children ; there were ten of them , and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand , in couples : they were all ornamented with hearts .
6 Next came the guests , mostly Kings and Queens , and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit : it was talking in a hurried nervous manner , smiling at everything that was said , and went by without noticing her .
7 Then followed the Knave of Hearts , carrying the King 's crown on a crimson velvet cushion ; and , last of all this grand procession , came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS .
8 Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face like the three gardeners , but she could not remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions ; ` and besides , what would be the use of a procession , ' thought she , ` if people had all to lie down upon their faces , so that they could n't see it ? '
9 So she stood still where she was , and waited .
10 When the procession came opposite to Alice , they all stopped and looked at her , and the Queen said severely ` Who is this ? '
11 She said it to the Knave of Hearts , who only bowed and smiled in reply .
12 ` Idiot ! '
13 said the Queen , tossing her head impatiently ; and , turning to Alice , she went on , ` What 's your name , child ? '
14 ` My name is Alice , so please your Majesty , ' said Alice very politely ; but she added , to herself , ` Why , they 're only a pack of cards , after all .
15 I need n't be afraid of them ! '
16 ` And who are THESE ? '
17 said the Queen , pointing to the three gardeners who were lying round the rosetree ; for , you see , as they were lying on their faces , and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack , she could not tell whether they were gardeners , or soldiers , or courtiers , or three of her own children .
18 ` How should I know ? '
19 said Alice , surprised at her own courage .
20 ` It 's no business of MINE . '
21 The Queen turned crimson with fury , and , after glaring at her for a moment like a wild beast , screamed ` Off with her XXXXX !	head		backs|face|faces|footsteps|gardeners|head|name|rest|soldiers|sound

1 I might have said to Claude , So like a boy !
2 but I did n't .
3 Instead , I sympathized with him , and pointed out that it really did n't matter because I had spoiled it by jabbing my elbow through it .
4 By this time the kite was out of sight , and we never expected to see or hear of it again .
5 * * * * * A month later a letter came to the Big Half Moon for Father .
6 Jake Wiggins brought it over in his sloop .
7 Father went off by himself to read it , and such a queer-looking face as he had when he came back !
8 His eyes looked as if he had been crying , but that could n't be , I suppose , because Claude says men never cry .
9 Anyhow , his face was all glad and soft and smiley .
10 `` Do you two young pirates and freebooters want to know what has become of your kite ? ''
11 he said .
12 Then he sat down beside us on the rocks at the Mermaid 's Pool and told us the whole story , and read his letter to us .
13 It was the most amazing thing .
14 It seems Father had had relations after all -- a brother and a sister in particular .
15 But when he was a young man he quarrelled with his brother , who did n't treat him very well -- but he 's been dead for years , so I wo n't say a word against him -- and had gone away from home .
16 He never went back , and he never even let them know he was living .
17 Father says that this was very wrong of him , and I suppose it was , since he says so ; but I do n't see how Father could do anything wrong .
18 Anyway , he had a sister Esther whom he loved very much ; but he felt bitter against her too , because he thought she took his brother 's part too much .
19 So , though a letter of hers , asking him to go back , did reach him , he never answered it , and he never heard anything more .
20 Years afterward he felt sorry and went back , but his brother was dead and his sister had gone away , and he could n't find out a single thing about her .
21 So much for that ; and now about the XXXXX .	kite		Pool|eyes|face|freebooters|kite|matter|part|rocks|thing|word

1 ` But how did you get those splendid cattle ? '
2 asked Big Klaus .
3 ` They are sea-cattle ! '
4 said Little Klaus . '
5 I will tell you the whole story , and I thank you for having drowned me , because now I am on dry land and really rich !
6 How frightened I was when I was in the sack !
7 How the wind whistled in my ears as you threw me from the bridge into the cold water !
8 I sank at once to the bottom ; but I did not hurt myself for underneath was growing the most beautiful soft grass .
9 I fell on this , and immediately the sack opened ; the loveliest maiden in snow-white garments , with a green garland round her wet hair , took me by the hand , and said ! ''
10 Are you Little Klaus ?
11 Here are some cattle for you to begin with , and a mile farther down the road there is another herd , which I will give you as a present ! ''
12 Now I saw that the river was a great high-road for the sea-people .
13 Along it they travel underneath from the sea to the land till the river ends .
14 It was so beautiful , full of flowers and fresh grass ; the fishes which were swimming in the water shot past my ears as the birds do here in the air .
15 What lovely people there were , and what fine cattle were grazing in the ditches and dykes ! '
16 ` But why did you come up to us again ? '
17 asked Big Klaus . '
18 I should not have done so , if it is so beautiful down below ! '
19 ` Oh ! '
20 said Little Klaus , ` that was just so politic of me .
21 You heard what I told you , that the sea-maiden said to me a mile farther along the road -- and by the road she meant the XXXXX , for she can go by no other way -- there was another herd of cattle waiting for me .	river		bottom|ditches|fishes|herd|land|river|road|sea|story|wind

1 One day , whilst passing near a fountain in the garden , she noticed that the sun 's rays fell on the water in such a manner as to produce a brilliant rainbow .
2 She stood still to admire it , when , to her great surprise , she heard a voice addressing her which seemed to come from the centre of its rays .
3 The voice was that of a young man , and its sweetness of tone and the agreeable things it uttered , led one to infer that its owner must be equally charming ; but this had to be a mere matter of fancy , for no one was visible .
4 The beautiful Rainbow informed Fairer-than-a-Fairy that he was young , the son of a powerful king , and that the Fairy , Lagree , who owed his parents a grudge , had revenged herself by depriving him of his natural shape for some years ; that she had imprisoned him in the palace , where he had found his confinement hard to bear for some time , but now , he owned , he no longer sighed for freedom since he had seen and learned to love Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
5 He added many other tender speeches to this declaration , and the Princess , to whom such remarks were a new experience , could not help feeling pleased and touched by his attentions .
6 The Prince could only appear or speak under the form of a Rainbow , and it was therefore necessary that the sun should shine on water so as to enable the rays to form themselves .
7 Fairer-than-a-Fairy lost no moment in which she could meet her lover , and they enjoyed many long and interesting interviews .
8 One day , however , their conversation became so absorbing and time passed so quickly that the Princess forgot to attend to the fire , and it went out .
9 Lagree , on her return , soon found out the neglect , and seemed only too pleased to have the opportunity of showing her spite to her lovely prisoner .
10 She ordered Fairer-than-a-Fairy to start next day at dawn to ask Locrinos for fire with which to relight the one she had allowed to go out .
11 Now this Locrinos was a cruel monster who devoured everyone he came across , and especially enjoyed a chance of catching and eating any young girls .
12 Our heroine obeyed with great sweetness , and without having been able to take leave of her lover she set off to go to Locrinos as to certain death .
13 As she was crossing a wood a bird sang to her to pick up a shining pebble which she would find in a fountain close by , and to use it when needed .
14 She took the bird 's advice , and in due time arrived at the house of Locrinos .
15 Luckily she only found his wife at home , who was much struck by the Princess 's youth and beauty and sweet gentle manners , and still further impressed by the present of the shining pebble .
16 She readily let Fairer-than-a-Fairy have the fire , and in return for the stone she gave her another , which , she said , might prove useful some day .
17 Then she sent her away without doing her any harm .
18 Lagree was as much surprised as displeased at the happy result of this expedition , and Fairer-than-a Fairy waited anxiously for an opportunity of meeting Prince Rainbow and telling him her adventures .
19 She found , however , that he had already been told all about them by a Fairy who protected him , and to whom he was related .
20 The dread of fresh dangers to his beloved Princess made him devise some more convenient way of meeting than by the garden fountain , and Fairer-than-a-Fairy carried out his plan daily with entire success .
21 Every morning she placed a large basin full of water on her window-sill , and as soon as the sun 's rays fell on the XXXXX the Rainbow appeared as clearly as it had ever done in the fountain .	water		dread|everyone|fountain|heroine|neglect|palace|prisoner|result|voice|water

1 They will rush to eat them up greedily , and when you have scattered the last crumb you must lose no time in throwing the hare to them ; as soon as the hare feels itself on the ground it will run away as quickly as possible , and the wild beasts will turn to pursue it .
2 In this way you will be able to get through the wood unhurt . '
3 Iwanich thanked the old man for his counsel , dismounted from his horse , and , taking the bag and the hare in his arms , he entered the forest .
4 He had hardly lost sight of his gaunt grey friend when he heard growls and snarls in the thicket close to him , and before he had time to think he found himself surrounded by the most dreadful-looking creatures .
5 On one side he saw the glittering eye of a cruel tiger , on the other the gleaming teeth of a great she-wolf ; here a huge bear growled fiercely , and there a horrible snake coiled itself in the grass at his feet .
6 But Iwanich did not forget the old man 's advice , and quickly put his hand into the bag and took out as many bread-crumbs as he could hold in his hand at a time .
7 He threw them to the beasts , but soon the bag grew lighter and lighter , and the Prince began to feel a little frightened .
8 And now the last crumb was gone , and the hungry beasts thronged round him , greedy for fresh prey .
9 Then he seized the hare and threw it to them .
10 No sooner did the little creature feel itself on the ground than it lay back its ears and flew through the wood like an arrow from a bow , closely pursued by the wild beasts , and the Prince was left alone .
11 He looked at his ring , and when he saw that it sparkled as brightly as ever he went straight on through the forest .
12 He had n't gone very far when he saw a most extraordinary looking man coming towards him .
13 He was not more than three feet high , his legs were quite crooked , and all his body was covered with prickles like a hedgehog .
14 Two lions walked with him , fastened to his side by the two ends of his long beard .
15 He stopped the Prince and asked him in a harsh voice : ` Are you the man who has just fed my body-guard ? '
16 Iwanich was so startled that he could hardly reply , but the little man continued : ' I am most grateful to you for your kindness ; what can I give you as a reward ? '
17 ` All I ask , ' replied Iwanich , ` is , that I should be allowed to go through this wood in safety . '
18 ` Most certainly , ' answered the little man ; ` and for greater security I will give you one of my lions as a protector .
19 But when you leave this wood and come near a palace which does not belong to my domain , let the lion go , in order that he may not fall into the hands of an enemy and be killed . '
20 With these words he loosened the lion from his beard and bade the beast guard the youth carefully .
21 With this new protector Iwanich wandered on through the XXXXX , and though he came upon a great many more wolves , hyenas , leopards , and other wild beasts , they always kept at a respectful distance when they saw what sort of an escort the Prince had with him .	forest		advice|arms|beasts|ends|forest|hands|palace|reward|security|sight

1 The miller thought she must mean one of his puppies or kittens , so promised the nixy at once what she asked , and returned to his mill full of hope .
2 On the threshold he was greeted by a servant with the news that his wife had just given birth to a boy .
3 The poor miller was much horrified by these tidings , and went in to his wife with a heavy heart to tell her and his relations of the fatal bargain he had just struck with the nixy . '
4 I would gladly give up all the good fortune she promised me , ' he said , ` if I could only save my child . '
5 But no one could think of any advice to give him , beyond taking care that the child never went near the mill-pond .
6 So the boy throve and grew big , and in the meantime all prospered with the miller , and in a few years he was richer than he had ever been before .
7 But all the same he did not enjoy his good fortune , for he could not forget his compact with the nixy , and he knew that sooner or later she would demand his fulfilment of it .
8 But year after year went by , and the boy grew up and became a great hunter , and the lord of the land took him into his service , for he was as smart and bold a hunter as you would wish to see .
9 In a short time he married a pretty young wife , and lived with her in great peace and happiness .
10 One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field .
11 The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
12 Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid .
13 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
14 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves .
15 When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew very anxious , and when his game bag was found close to the mill-pond she guessed at once what had befallen him .
16 She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing .
17 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
18 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
19 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
20 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
21 The hunter 's wife gave the XXXXX a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .	witch		arms|bargain|comb|home|land|meantime|round|skin|sorrow|witch

1 Then the Hunter did as the old woman had told him : he cut open the bird , found its heart , swallowed it , and took the cloak home with him .
2 The next morning when he awoke he remembered the promise , and wanted to see if it had come true .
3 But when he lifted up his pillow , there sparkled the gold piece , and the next morning he found another , and so on every time he got up .
4 He collected a heap of gold , but at last he thought to himself , ` What good is all my gold to me if I stay at home ?
5 I will travel and look a bit about me in the world . '
6 So he took leave of his parents , slung his hunting knapsack and his gun round him , and journeyed into the world .
7 It happened that one day he went through a thick wood , and when he came to the end of it there lay in the plain before him a large castle .
8 At one of the windows in it stood an old woman with a most beautiful maiden by her side , looking out .
9 But the old woman was a witch , and she said to the girl , ` There comes one out of the wood who has a wonderful treasure in his body which we must manage to possess ourselves of , darling daughter ; we have more right to it than he .
10 He has a bird 's heart in him , and so every morning there lies a gold piece under his pillow . '
11 She told her how they could get hold of it , and how she was to coax it from him , and at last threatened her angrily , saying , ` And if you do not obey me , you shall repent it ! '
12 When the Hunter came nearer he saw the maiden , and said to himself , ' I have travelled so far now that I will rest , and turn into this beautiful castle ; money I have in plenty . '
13 But the real reason was that he had caught sight of the lovely face .
14 He went into the house , and was kindly received and hospitably entertained .
15 It was not long before he was so much in love with the witch-maiden that he thought of nothing else , and only looked in her eyes , and whatever she wanted , that he gladly did .
16 Then the old witch said , ` Now we must have the bird-heart ; he will not feel when it is gone . '
17 She prepared a drink , and when it was ready she poured it in a goblet and gave it to the maiden , who had to hand it to the hunter .
18 ` Drink to me now , my dearest , ' she said .
19 Then he took the goblet , and when he had swallowed the drink the bird-heart came out of his mouth .
20 The maiden had to get hold of it secretly and then swallow it herself , for the old witch wanted to have it .
21 Thenceforward he found no more gold under his pillow , and it lay under the maiden 's ; but he was so much in XXXXX and so much bewitched that he thought of nothing except spending all his time with the maiden .	love		bit|body|end|face|love|maiden|money|pillow|promise|woman

1 As time went on the Queen fell sick , and suspecting that it was her last illness , sent for the King to come to her .
2 When he came she told him that she had no long time to live , and therefore wished to ask one thing of him , which was , that if he married another wife he should promise to take no other one than the Queen of Hetland the Good .
3 The King gave the promise , and thereafter the Queen died .
4 Time went past , and the King , growing tired of living alone , fitted out his ship and sailed out to sea .
5 As he sailed there came upon him so thick a mist that he altogether lost his bearings , but after long trouble he found land .
6 There he laid his ship to , and went on shore all alone .
7 After walking for some time he came to a forest , into which he went a little way and stopped .
8 Then he heard sweet music from a harp , and went in the direction of the sound until he came to a clearing , and there he saw three women , one of whom sat on a golden chair , and was beautifully and grandly dressed ; she held a harp in her hands , and was very sorrowful .
9 The second was also finely dressed , but younger in appearance , and also sat on a chair , but it was not so grand as the first one 's .
10 The third stood beside them , and was very pretty to look at ; she had a green cloak over her other clothes , and it was easy to see that she was maid to the other two .
11 After the King had looked at them for a little he went forward and saluted them .
12 The one that sat on the golden chair asked him who he was and where he was going ; and he told her all the story -- how he was a king , and had lost his queen , and was now on his way to Hetland the Good , to ask the Queen of that country in marriage .
13 She answered that fortune had contrived this wonderfully , for pirates had plundered Hetland and killed the King , and she had fled from the land in terror , and had come hither after great trouble , and she was the very person he was looking for , and the others were her daughter and maid .
14 The King immediately asked her hand ; she gladly received his proposal and accepted him at once .
15 Thereafter they all set out , and made their way to the ship ; and after that nothing is told of their voyage until the King reached his own country .
16 There he made a great feast , and celebrated his marriage with this woman ; and after that things are quiet for a time .
17 Hermod and Hadvor took but little notice of the Queen and her daughter , but , on the other hand , Hadvor and the Queen 's maid , whose name was Olof , were very friendly , and Olof came often to visit Hadvor in her castle .
18 Before long the King went out to war , and no sooner was he away than the Queen came to talk with Hermod , and said that she wanted him to marry her daughter .
19 Hermod told her straight and plain that he would not do so , at which the Queen grew terribly angry , and said that in that case neither should he have Hadvor , for she would now lay this spell on him , that he should go to a desert island and there be a lion by day and a man by night .
20 He should also think always of Hadvor , which would cause him all the more sorrow , and from this spell he should never be freed until Hadvor burned the lion 's skin , and that would not happen very soon .
21 As soon as the Queen had finished her speech Hermod replied that he also laid a XXXXX on her , and that was , that as soon as he was freed from her enchantments she should become a rat and her daughter a mouse , and fight with each other in the hall until he killed them with his sword .	spell		country|fortune|hand|king|maid|nothing|spell|time|way|woman

1 Stand at the door of the hen-house , and wait there for your horses .
2 In the meantime I will slip in among the hens through a hole in the wall and give them a good chase , so that the noise they make will arouse the royal henwives , and they will come to see what is the matter .
3 When they see the horses they will at once imagine them to be the cause of the disturbance , and will drive them out .
4 Then you must lay hands on the mare and foal and catch them .
5 All turned out exactly as the sly fox had foreseen .
6 The Prince swung himself on the mare , seized the foal by its bridle , and hurried home .
7 While he was riding over the heath in the highest of spirits the mare suddenly said to her rider : ` You are the first person who has ever succeeded in outwitting the old witch Corva , and now you may ask what reward you like for your service .
8 If you promise never to betray me I will give you a piece of advice which you will do well to follow . '
9 The Prince promised never to betray her confidence , and the mare continued : ` Ask nothing else as a reward than my foal , for it has not its like in the world , and is not to be bought for love or money ; for it can go from one end of the earth to another in a few minutes .
10 Of course the cunning Corva will do her best to dissuade you from taking the foal , and will tell you that it is both idle and sickly ; but do not believe her , and stick to your point . '
11 Iwanich longed to possess such an animal , and promised the mare to follow her advice .
12 This time Corva received him in the most friendly manner , and set a sumptuous repast before him .
13 As soon as he had finished she asked him what reward he demanded for his year 's service .
14 ` Nothing more nor less , ' replied the Prince , ` than the foal of your mare . '
15 The witch pretended to be much astonished at his request , and said that he deserved something much better than the foal , for the beast was lazy and nervous , blind in one eye , and , in short , was quite worthless .
16 But the Prince knew what he wanted , and when the old witch saw that he had made up his mind to have the foal , she said , ' I am obliged to keep my promise and to hand you over the foal ; and as I know who you are and what you want , I will tell you in what way the animal will be useful to you .
17 The man in the cauldron of boiling pitch , whom you set free , is a mighty magician ; through your curiosity and thoughtlessness Militza came into his power , and he has transported her and her castle and belongings into a distant country .
18 ` You are the only person who can kill him ; and in consequence he fears you to such an extent that he has set spies to watch you , and they report your movements to him daily .
19 ` When you have reached him , beware of speaking a single word to him , or you will fall into the power of his friends .
20 Seize him at once by the beard and dash him to the ground . '
21 Iwanich thanked the old witch , mounted his XXXXX , put spurs to its sides , and they flew like lightning through the air .	foal		disturbance|door|foal|horses|magician|manner|money|power|rider|wall

1 The Queen hastened to inform the King her husband , and the wedding took place on the spot .
2 As the ceremony was completed the Wizard King arrived .
3 His despair at being so late bewildered him so entirely that he appeared in his natural form and attempted to sprinkle some black liquid over the bride and bridegroom , which was intended to kill them , but the Fairy stretched out her wand and the liquid dropped on the Magician himself .
4 He fell down senseless , and the Princess 's father , deeply offended at the cruel revenge which had been attempted , ordered him to be removed and locked up in prison .
5 Now as magicians lose all their power as soon as they are in prison , the King felt himself much embarrassed at being thus at the mercy of those he had so greatly offended .
6 The Prince implored and obtained his father 's pardon , and the prison doors were opened .
7 No sooner was this done than the Wizard King was seen in the air under the form of some unknown bird , exclaiming as he flew off that he would never forgive either his son or the Fairy the cruel wrong they had done him .
8 Everyone entreated the Fairy to settle in the kingdom where she now was , to which she consented .
9 She built herself a magnificent palace , to which she transported her books and fairy secrets , and where she enjoyed the sight of the perfect happiness she had helped to bestow on the entire royal family .
10 THE NIXY -LRB- 15 -RRB- -LRB- 15 -RRB- From the German .
11 Kletke .
12 There was once upon a time a miller who was very well off , and had as much money and as many goods as he knew what to do with .
13 But sorrow comes in the night , and the miller all of a sudden became so poor that at last he could hardly call the mill in which he sat his own .
14 He wandered about all day full of despair and misery , and when he lay down at night he could get no rest , but lay awake all night sunk in sorrowful thoughts .
15 One morning he rose up before dawn and went outside , for he thought his heart would be lighter in the open air .
16 As he wandered up and down on the banks of the mill-pond he heard a rustling in the water , and when he looked near he saw a white woman rising up from the waves .
17 He realised at once that this could be none other than the nixy of the mill-pond , and in his terror he did n't know if he should fly away or remain where he was .
18 While he hesitated the nixy spoke , called him by his name , and asked him why he was so sad .
19 When the miller heard how friendly her tone was , he plucked up heart and told her how rich and prosperous he had been all his life up till now , when he did n't know what he was to do for want and misery .
20 Then the nixy spoke comforting words to him , and promised that she would make him richer and more prosperous than he had ever been in his life before , if he would give her in return the youngest thing in his house .
21 The miller thought she must mean one of his puppies or kittens , so promised the nixy at once what she asked , and returned to his XXXXX full of hope .	mill		bird|goods|house|life|magicians|mill|money|son|woman|words

1 The old witch grew angry , and said , ` Such a cloak is a wonderful thing , it is seldom to be had in the world , and have it I must and will . '
2 She beat the maiden , and said that if she did not obey it would go ill with her .
3 So she did her mother 's bidding , and , standing one day by the window , she looked away into the far distance as if she were very sad .
4 ` Why are you standing there looking so sad ? '
5 asked the Hunter .
6 ` Alas , my love , ' she replied , ` over there lies the granite mountain where the costly precious stones grow .
7 I have a great longing to go there , so that when I think of it I am very sad .
8 For who can fetch them ?
9 Only the birds who fly ; a man , never . '
10 ` If you have no other trouble , ' said the Hunter , ` that one I can easily remove from your heart . '
11 So he wrapped her round in his cloak and wished themselves to the granite mountain , and in an instant there they were , sitting on it !
12 The precious stones sparkled so brightly on all sides that it was a pleasure to see them , and they collected the most beautiful and costly together .
13 But now the old witch had through her caused the Hunter 's eyes to become heavy .
14 He said to the maiden , ` We will sit down for a little while and rest ; I am so tired that I can hardly stand on my feet . '
15 So they sat down , and he laid his head on her lap and fell asleep .
16 As soon as he was sound asleep she unfastened the cloak from his shoulders , threw it on her own , left the granite and stones , and wished herself home again .
17 But when the Hunter had finished his sleep and awoke , he found that his love had betrayed him and left him alone on the wild mountain .
18 ` Oh , ' said he , ` why is faithlessness so great in the world ? '
19 and he sat down in sorrow and trouble , not knowing what to do .
20 But the mountain belonged to fierce and huge giants , who lived on it and traded there , and he had not sat long before he saw three of them striding towards him .
21 So he lay down as if he had fallen into a deep XXXXX .	sleep		distance|giants|granite|heart|longing|maiden|mountain|pleasure|shoulders|sleep

1 Soon the time came round when the king of the beasts would expect the youths and maidens to be brought to him .
2 The King therefore issued a proclamation inviting twelve youths and twelve maidens to offer themselves up to save their country ; and immediately many young people , far more than enough , hastened to do so .
3 A new ship was built , and set with black sails , and in it the youths and maidens who were appointed for the king of the beasts embarked and set out for his country .
4 When they arrived there they went at once to the Lake , and this time the lions did not stir , nor did the springs flow , and neither did the Lake speak .
5 So they waited then , and it was not long before the earth quaked even more terribly than the first time .
6 The Seven-headed Serpent came without his train of beasts , saw his prey waiting for him , and devoured it at one mouthful .
7 Then the ship 's crew returned home , and the same thing happened yearly until many years had passed .
8 Now the King of this unhappy country was growing old , and so was the Queen , and they had no children .
9 One day the Queen was sitting at the window weeping bitterly because she was childless , and knew that the crown would therefore pass to strangers after the King 's death .
10 Suddenly a little old woman appeared before her , holding an apple in her hand , and said , ` Why do you weep , my Queen , and what makes you so unhappy ? '
11 ` Alas , good mother , ' answered the Queen , ' I am unhappy because I have no children . '
12 ` Is that what vexes you ? '
13 said the old woman .
14 ` Listen to me .
15 I am a nun from the Spinning Convent , -LRB- 10 -RRB- and my mother when she died left me this apple .
16 Whoever eats this apple shall have a child . '
17 -LRB- 10 -RRB- Convent Gnothi .
18 The Queen gave money to the old woman , and bought the apple from her .
19 Then she peeled it , ate it , and threw the rind out of the window , and it so happened that a mare that was running loose in the court below ate up the rind .
20 After a time the Queen had a little boy , and the mare also had a male foal .
21 The XXXXX and the foal grew up together and loved each other like brothers .	boy		Convent|Serpent|boy|child|country|flow|foal|lions|mare|people

1 whispered Thumbelina to the swallow .
2 The little Prince was very much frightened at the swallow , for in comparison with one so tiny as himself he seemed a giant .
3 But when he saw Thumbelina , he was delighted , for she was the most beautiful girl he had ever seen .
4 So he took his golden crown from off his head and put it on hers , asking her her name , and if she would be his wife , and then she would be Queen of all the flowers .
5 Yes !
6 he was a different kind of husband to the son of the toad and the mole with the black-velvet coat .
7 So she said ` Yes ' to the noble Prince .
8 And out of each flower came a lady and gentleman , each so tiny and pretty that it was a pleasure to see them .
9 Each brought Thumbelina a present , but the best of all was a beautiful pair of wings which were fastened on to her back , and now she too could fly from flower to flower .
10 They all wished her joy , and the swallow sat above in his nest and sang the wedding march , and that he did as well as he could ; but he was sad , because he was very fond of Thumbelina and did not want to be separated from her .
11 ` You shall not be called Thumbelina ! '
12 said the spirit of the flower to her ; ` that is an ugly name , and you are much too pretty for that .
13 We will call you May Blossom . '
14 ` Farewell , farewell ! '
15 said the little swallow with a heavy heart , and flew away to farther lands , far , far away , right back to Denmark .
16 There he had a little nest above a window , where his wife lived , who can tell fairy-stories .
17 ` Tweet , tweet ! '
18 he sang to her .
19 And that is the way we learnt the whole story .
20 THE NIGHTINGALE In China , as I daresay you know , the Emperor is a Chinaman , and all his courtiers are also Chinamen .
21 The XXXXX I am going to tell you happened many years ago , but it is worth while for you to listen to it , before it is forgotten .	story		Farewell|comparison|courtiers|giant|heart|hers|spirit|story|way|window

1 The King gave the promise , and thereafter the Queen died .
2 Time went past , and the King , growing tired of living alone , fitted out his ship and sailed out to sea .
3 As he sailed there came upon him so thick a mist that he altogether lost his bearings , but after long trouble he found land .
4 There he laid his ship to , and went on shore all alone .
5 After walking for some time he came to a forest , into which he went a little way and stopped .
6 Then he heard sweet music from a harp , and went in the direction of the sound until he came to a clearing , and there he saw three women , one of whom sat on a golden chair , and was beautifully and grandly dressed ; she held a harp in her hands , and was very sorrowful .
7 The second was also finely dressed , but younger in appearance , and also sat on a chair , but it was not so grand as the first one 's .
8 The third stood beside them , and was very pretty to look at ; she had a green cloak over her other clothes , and it was easy to see that she was maid to the other two .
9 After the King had looked at them for a little he went forward and saluted them .
10 The one that sat on the golden chair asked him who he was and where he was going ; and he told her all the story -- how he was a king , and had lost his queen , and was now on his way to Hetland the Good , to ask the Queen of that country in marriage .
11 She answered that fortune had contrived this wonderfully , for pirates had plundered Hetland and killed the King , and she had fled from the land in terror , and had come hither after great trouble , and she was the very person he was looking for , and the others were her daughter and maid .
12 The King immediately asked her hand ; she gladly received his proposal and accepted him at once .
13 Thereafter they all set out , and made their way to the ship ; and after that nothing is told of their voyage until the King reached his own country .
14 There he made a great feast , and celebrated his marriage with this woman ; and after that things are quiet for a time .
15 Hermod and Hadvor took but little notice of the Queen and her daughter , but , on the other hand , Hadvor and the Queen 's maid , whose name was Olof , were very friendly , and Olof came often to visit Hadvor in her castle .
16 Before long the King went out to war , and no sooner was he away than the Queen came to talk with Hermod , and said that she wanted him to marry her daughter .
17 Hermod told her straight and plain that he would not do so , at which the Queen grew terribly angry , and said that in that case neither should he have Hadvor , for she would now lay this spell on him , that he should go to a desert island and there be a lion by day and a man by night .
18 He should also think always of Hadvor , which would cause him all the more sorrow , and from this spell he should never be freed until Hadvor burned the lion 's skin , and that would not happen very soon .
19 As soon as the Queen had finished her speech Hermod replied that he also laid a spell on her , and that was , that as soon as he was freed from her enchantments she should become a rat and her daughter a mouse , and fight with each other in the hall until he killed them with his sword .
20 After this Hermod disappeared , and no one knew what had become of him ; the Queen caused search to be made for him , but he could nowhere be found .
21 One XXXXX , when Olof was in the castle beside Hadvor , she asked the Princess if she knew where Hermod had gone to .	time		case|castle|country|hall|maid|sea|sword|time|voyage|women

1 ` Here I am , ' replied the youth .
2 ` Then hold on to me , ' said the Giant , ` so that I may lead you up above again . '
3 So the Herd-boy held on to the Giant , and in a few moments he found himself on the earth once more , but the Giant had vanished .
4 The Herd-boy returned to his sheep , and took off the invisible belt which he hid carefully in his bag .
5 The next morning the lad felt hungry , and thought he would cut off a piece of the loaf he had carried away from the Giants ' wedding feast , and eat it .
6 But although he tried with all his might , he could n't cut off the smallest piece .
7 Then in despair he bit the loaf , and what was his astonishment when a piece of gold fell out of his mouth and rolled at his feet .
8 He bit the bread a second and third time , and each time a piece of gold fell out of his mouth ; but the bread remained untouched .
9 The Herd-boy was very much delighted over his stroke of good fortune , and , hiding the magic loaf in his bag , he hurried off to the nearest village to buy himself something to eat , and then returned to his sheep .
10 Now the Lord whose sheep the Herd-boy looked after had a very lovely daughter , who always smiled and nodded to the youth when she walked with her father in his fields .
11 For a long time the Herd-boy had made up his mind to prepare a surprise for this beautiful creature on her birthday .
12 So when the day approached he put on his invisible belt , took a sack of gold pieces with him , and slipping into her room in the middle of the night , he placed the bag of gold beside her bed and returned to his sheep .
13 The girl 's joy was great , and so was her parents ' next day when they found the sack full of gold pieces .
14 The Herd-boy was so pleased to think what pleasure he had given that the next night he placed another bag of gold beside the girl 's bed .
15 And this he continued to do for seven nights , and the girl and her parents made up their minds that it must be a good Fairy who brought the gold every night .
16 But one night they determined to watch , and see from their hiding place who the bringer of the sack of gold really was .
17 On the eighth night a fearful storm of wind and rain came on while the Herd-boy was on his way to bring the beautiful girl another bag of gold .
18 Then for the first time he noticed , just as he reached his master 's house , that he had forgotten the belt which made him invisible .
19 He did n't like the idea of going back to his hut in the wind and wet , so he just stepped as he was into the girl 's room , laid the sack of gold beside her , and was turning to leave the room , when his master confronted him and said , ` You young rogue , so you were going to steal the gold that a good Fairy brings every night , were you ? '
20 The Herd-boy was so taken aback by his words , that he stood trembling before him , and did not dare to explain his presence .
21 Then his XXXXX spoke .	master		Fairy|Giant|Lord|birthday|lad|master|morning|piece|wind|youth

1 Now you see that I spoke the truth .
2 But all that bad time is past .
3 Now listen to me : I must still remain enchanted for three months .
4 Will you stay here with me till that time is over ? '
5 So the Princess stayed with him , and said to the old man , ` Go back to the castle and tell my parents that I am staying here . '
6 Her parents were very much vexed when the old man came back and told them this , but as soon as the three months of the Prince 's enchantment were over , he ceased to be an eagle and became once more a man , and they returned home together .
7 And then they lived happily , and we who hear the story are happier still .
8 THE IRON STOVE -LRB- 7 -RRB- -LRB- 7 -RRB- Grimm .
9 Once upon a time when wishes came true there was a king 's son who was enchanted by an old witch , so that he was obliged to sit in a large iron stove in a wood .
10 There he lived for many years , and no one could free him .
11 At last a king 's daughter came into the wood ; she had lost her way , and could not find her father 's kingdom again .
12 She had been wandering round and round for nine days , and she came at last to the iron case .
13 A voice came from within and asked her , ` Where do you come from , and where do you want to go ? '
14 She answered , ' I have lost my way to my father 's kingdom , and I shall never get home again . '
15 Then the voice from the iron stove said , ' I will help you to find your home again , and that in a very short time , if you will promise to do what I ask you .
16 I am a greater prince than you are a princess , and I will marry you . '
17 Then she grew frightened , and thought , ` What can a young lassie do with an iron stove ? '
18 But as she wanted very much to go home to her father , she promised to do what he wished .
19 He said , ` You must come again , and bring a knife with you to scrape a hole in the iron . '
20 Then he gave her someone for a guide , who walked near her and said nothing , but he brought her in two hours to her house .
21 There was great joy in the XXXXX when the Princess came back , and the old King fell on her neck and kissed her .	castle		castle|guide|hole|iron|king|prince|round|son|truth|way

1 ` Will the youth have the sense not to let himself be caught in her toils ? '
2 ` We will wait , ' said the first bird , ` and see how they get on together . '
3 The evening light had quite faded , and the full moon was already shining down upon the forest , when the young man heard a slight rustling sound .
4 After a few moments there came out of the forest a maiden , gliding over the grass so lightly that her feet seemed scarcely to touch the ground , and stood beside the spring .
5 The youth could not turn away his eyes from the maiden , for he had never in his life seen a woman so beautiful .
6 Without seeming to notice anything , she went to the spring , looked up to the full moon , then knelt down and bathed her face nine times , then looked up to the moon again and walked nine times round the well , and as she walked she sang this song : ` Full-faced moon with light unshaded , Let my beauty ne'er be faded .
7 Never let my cheek grow pale !
8 While the moon is waning nightly , May the maiden bloom more brightly , May her freshness never fail ! '
9 Then she dried her face with her long hair , and was about to go away , when her eye suddenly fell upon the spot where the young man was sitting , and she turned towards the tree .
10 The youth rose and stood waiting .
11 Then the maiden said , ` You ought to have a heavy punishment because you have presumed to watch my secret doings in the moonlight .
12 But I will forgive you this time , because you are a stranger and knew no better .
13 But you must tell me truly who you are and how you came to this place , where no mortal has ever set foot before . '
14 The youth answered humbly : ` Forgive me , beautiful maiden , if I have unintentionally offended you .
15 I chanced to come here after long wandering , and found a good place to sleep under this tree .
16 At your coming I did not know what to do , but stayed where I was , because I thought my silent watching could not offend you . '
17 The maiden answered kindly , ` Come and spend this night with us .
18 You will sleep better on a pillow than on damp moss . '
19 The youth hesitated for a little , but presently he heard the birds saying from the top of the tree , ` Go where she calls you , but take care to give no blood , or you will sell your soul . '
20 So the youth went with her , and soon they reached a beautiful garden , where stood a splendid house , which glittered in the moonlight as if it was all built out of gold and silver .
21 When the XXXXX entered he found many splendid chambers , each one finer than the last .	youth		bloom|care|eyes|forest|garden|man|night|soul|tree|youth

1 Ask him , instead , for the ring which he wears on his little finger , for in that ring lies a magic power ; you have only to throw it from one hand to the other , and at once twelve young men will appear , who will do your bidding , no matter how difficult , in a single night . '
2 So they started on their way , and after much wandering they reached a spot where a great rock rose straight up in the middle of the road .
3 Instantly the Serpent uncoiled itself from his neck , and , as it touched the damp earth , it resumed the shape of the lovely damsel .
4 Pointing to the rock , she showed him an opening just big enough for a man to wriggle through .
5 Passing into it , they entered a long underground passage , which led out on to a wide field , above which spread a blue sky .
6 In the middle of the field stood a magnificent castle , built out of porphyry , with a roof of gold and with glittering battlements .
7 And his beautiful guide told him that this was the palace in which her father lived and reigned over his kingdom in the Under-world .
8 Together they entered the palace , and were received by the King with great kindness .
9 Turning to his daughter , he said : ` My child , I had almost given up the hope of ever seeing you again .
10 Where have you been all these years ? '
11 ` My father , ' she replied , ' I owe my life to this youth , who saved me from a terrible death . '
12 Upon which the King turned to Martin with a gracious smile , saying : ' I will reward your courage by granting you whatever your heart desires .
13 Take as much gold , silver , and precious stones as you choose . ' '
14 I thank you , mighty King , for your gracious offer , ' answered Martin , ' ` but I do not covet either gold , silver , or precious stones ; yet if you will grant me a favour , give me , I beg , the ring from off the little finger of your royal hand .
15 Every time my eye falls on it I shall think of your gracious Majesty , and when I marry I shall present it to my bride . '
16 So the King took the ring from his finger and gave it to Martin , saying : ` Take it , good youth ; but with it I make one condition -- you are never to confide to anyone that this is a magic ring .
17 If you do , you will straightway bring misfortune on yourself . '
18 Martin took the ring , and , having thanked the King , he set out on the same road by which he had come down into the Under-world .
19 When he had regained the upper air he started for his old home , and having found his mother still living in the old house where he had left her , they settled down together very happily .
20 So uneventful was their life that it almost seemed as if it would go on in this way always , without let or hindrance .
21 But one day it suddenly came into his mind that he would like to get married , and , moreover , that he would choose a very grand wife -- a King 's XXXXX , in short .	daughter		air|daughter|death|father|hand|matter|misfortune|neck|rock|stones

1 With these words the creature disappeared into the depths of the stream .
2 Almost immediately a rushing hissing sound was heard in the waters , the waves dashed against the banks , the foam was tossed into the air , and the two horses leapt suddenly on to the dry land , trembling and shaking with fear .
3 Iwanich sprang at once on to the mare 's back , seized the foal by its bridle , and hastened home in the highest spirits .
4 When the witch saw the Prince bringing the horses home she could hardly conceal her wrath , and as soon as she had placed Iwanich 's supper before him she stole away again to the stables .
5 The Prince followed her , and heard her scolding the beasts harshly for not having hidden themselves better .
6 She bade them wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep and then to hide themselves in the clouds , and to remain there till she called .
7 If they did not do as she told them she would beat them till they bled .
8 The next morning , after Iwanich had led his horses to the fields , he fell once more into a magic sleep .
9 The horses at once ran away and hid themselves in the clouds , which hung down from the mountains in soft billowy masses .
10 When the Prince awoke and found that both the mare and the foal had disappeared , he bethought him at once of the eagle , and taking the feather out of his pocket he blew it into the air .
11 In a moment the bird swooped down beside him and asked : ` What do you wish me to do ? '
12 ` My mare and foal , ' replied the Prince , ` have run away from me , and have hidden themselves in the clouds ; if you wish to save my life , restore both animals to me . '
13 ` Wait a minute , ' answered the eagle ; ` with the help of my friends I will soon drive them back to you . '
14 With these words the bird flew up into the air and disappeared among the clouds .
15 Almost directly Iwanich saw his two horses being driven towards him by a host of eagles of all sizes .
16 He caught the mare and foal , and having thanked the eagle he drove them cheerfully home again .
17 The old witch was more disgusted than ever when she saw him appearing , and having set his supper before him she stole into the stables , and Iwanich heard her abusing the horses for not having hidden themselves better in the clouds .
18 Then she bade them hide themselves next morning , as soon as Iwanich was asleep , in the King 's hen-house , which stood on a lonely part of the heath , and to remain there till she called .
19 If they failed to do as she told them she would certainly beat them this time till they bled .
20 On the following morning the Prince drove his horses as usual to the fields .
21 After he had been overpowered by sleep , as on the former days , the XXXXX and foal ran away and hid themselves in the royal hen house .	mare		beasts|bird|depths|friends|land|life|mare|mountains|pocket|witch

1 ` Hoppetty hop !
2 what a ride ! '
3 Here I come ! '
4 shouted Blockhead-Hans , singing so that the echoes were roused far and near .
5 But his brothers were riding slowly in front .
6 They were not speaking , but they were thinking over all the good things they were going to say , for everything had to be thought out .
7 ` Hullo ! '
8 bawled Blockhead-Hans , ` here I am !
9 Just look what I found on the road ! '
10 -- and he showed them a dead crow which he had picked up .
11 ` Blockhead ! '
12 said his brothers , ` what are you going to do with it ? '
13 ` With the crow ?
14 I shall give it to the Princess ! '
15 ` Do so , certainly ! '
16 they said , laughing loudly and riding on .
17 ` Slap !
18 bang !
19 here I am again !
20 Look what I have just found !
21 You do n't find such XXXXX every day on the road ! '	things		bang|brothers|crow|echoes|everything|front|hop|road|singing|things

1 And then he set the dog on the apron .
2 When he saw all the silver in the chest , he threw away the copper he had taken , and filled his pockets and knapsack with nothing but silver .
3 Then he went into the third room .
4 Horrors !
5 the dog there had two eyes , each as large as the Round Tower at Copenhagen , spinning round in his head like wheels .
6 ` Good evening ! '
7 said the Soldier and saluted , for he had never seen a dog like this before .
8 But when he had examined him more closely , he thought to himself : ` Now then , I 've had enough of this ! '
9 and put him down on the floor , and opened the chest .
10 Heavens !
11 what a heap of gold there was !
12 With all that he could buy up the whole town , and all the sugar pigs , all the tin soldiers , whips and rocking-horses in the whole world .
13 Now he threw away all the silver with which he had filled his pockets and knapsack , and filled them with gold instead -- yes , all his pockets , his knapsack , cap and boots even , so that he could hardly walk .
14 Now he was rich indeed .
15 He put the dog back upon the chest , shut the door , and then called up through the tree : ` Now pull me up again , old Witch ! '
16 ` Have you got the tinder-box also ? '
17 asked the Witch .
18 ` Botheration ! '
19 said the Soldier , ' I had clean forgotten it ! '
20 And then he went back and fetched it .
21 The Witch pulled him up , and there he stood again on the high road , with pockets , knapsack , XXXXX and boots filled with gold .	cap		Heavens|Horrors|apron|cap|evening|floor|gold|pockets|town|tree

1 One night , not long after , a loud noise and rumbling was heard under the castle .
2 Hadvor at once guessed what it was , and told her maids to be ready to help her .
3 The noise and thundering grew louder and louder , until the floor began to open , whereupon Hadvor made them take the caldron of pitch and pour plenty of it into the opening .
4 With that the noises grew fainter and fainter , till at last they ceased altogether .
5 Next morning the Queen rose early , and went out to the Palace gate , and there she found her brother the Giant lying dead .
6 She went up to him and said , ' I pronounce this spell , that you become a beautiful prince , and that Hadvor shall be unable to say anything against the charges that I shall bring against her . '
7 The body of the dead Giant now became that of a beautiful prince , and the Queen went in again . '
8 I do n't think , ' said she to the King , ` that your daughter is as good as she is said to be .
9 My brother came and asked her hand , and she has had him put to death .
10 I have just found his dead body lying at the Palace gate . '
11 The King went along with the Queen to see the body , and thought it all very strange ; so beautiful a youth , he said , would have been a worthy match for Hadvor , and he would readily have agreed to their marriage .
12 The Queen asked leave to decide what Hadvor 's punishment should be , which the King was very willing to allow , so as to escape from punishing his own daughter .
13 The Queen 's decision was that the King should make a big grave-mound for her brother , and put Hadvor into it beside him .
14 Olof knew all the plans of the Queen , and went to tell the Princess what had been done , whereupon Hadvor earnestly entreated her to tell her what to do .
15 ` First and foremost , ' said Olof , ` you must get a wide cloak to wear over your other clothes , when you are put into the mound .
16 The Giant 's ghost will walk after you are both left together in there , and he will have two dogs along with him .
17 He will ask you to cut pieces out of his legs to give to the dogs , but that you must not promise to do unless he tells you where Hermod has gone to , and tells you how to find him .
18 He will then let you stand on his shoulders , so as to get out of the mound ; but he means to cheat you all the same , and will catch you by the cloak to pull you back again ; but you must take care to have the cloak loose on your shoulders , so that he will only get hold of that . '
19 The mound was all ready now , and the Giant laid in it , and into it Hadvor also had to go without being allowed to make any defence .
20 After they were both left there everything happened just as Olof had said .
21 The XXXXX became a Giant again , and asked Hadvor to cut the pieces out of his legs for the dogs ; but she refused until he told her that Hermod was in a desert island , which she could not reach unless she took the skin off the soles of his feet and made shoes out of that ; with these shoes she could travel both on land and sea .	prince		body|castle|charges|clothes|defence|marriage|noise|pitch|prince|whereupon

1 As Kala Nag sat down , he slid off his neck in a dead faint .
2 But , since native children have no nerves worth speaking of , in two hours he was lying very contentedly in Petersen Sahib 's hammock with Petersen Sahib 's shooting-coat under his head , and a glass of warm milk , a little brandy , with a dash of quinine , inside of him , and while the old hairy , scarred hunters of the jungles sat three deep before him , looking at him as though he were a spirit , he told his tale in short words , as a child will , and wound up with : `` Now , if I lie in one word , send men to see , and they will find that the elephant folk have trampled down more room in their dance-room , and they will find ten and ten , and many times ten , tracks leading to that dance-room .
3 They made more room with their feet .
4 I have seen it .
5 Kala Nag took me , and I saw .
6 Also Kala Nag is very leg-weary ! ''
7 Little Toomai lay back and slept all through the long afternoon and into the twilight , and while he slept Petersen Sahib and Machua Appa followed the track of the two elephants for fifteen miles across the hills .
8 Petersen Sahib had spent eighteen years in catching elephants , and he had only once before found such a dance-place .
9 Machua Appa had no need to look twice at the clearing to see what had been done there , or to scratch with his toe in the packed , rammed earth .
10 `` The child speaks truth , '' said he .
11 `` All this was done last night , and I have counted seventy tracks crossing the river .
12 See , Sahib , where Pudmini 's leg-iron cut the bark of that tree !
13 Yes ; she was there too . ''
14 They looked at one another and up and down , and they wondered .
15 For the ways of elephants are beyond the wit of any man , black or white , to fathom .
16 `` Forty years and five , '' said Machua Appa , `` have I followed my lord , the elephant , but never have I heard that any child of man had seen what this child has seen .
17 By all the Gods of the Hills , it is -- what can we say ? ''
18 and he shook his head .
19 When they got back to camp it was time for the evening meal .
20 Petersen Sahib ate alone in his tent , but he gave orders that the camp should have two sheep and some fowls , as well as a double ration of flour and rice and salt , for he knew that there would be a feast .
21 Big Toomai had come up hotfoot from the XXXXX in the plains to search for his son and his elephant , and now that he had found them he looked at them as though he were afraid of them both .	camp		camp|elephant|hammock|lord|meal|men|orders|speaking|tent|time

1 No , Sir , it was n't for the fat beetles at all .
2 It was to get Buster Bear 's help in a plan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson .
3 First Jimmy told Buster all about how puffed up Old Mr. Toad was because he had dined with Buster , and how ever since then he had refused even to speak to his old friends and neighbors .
4 It tickled Buster Bear so to think that little homely Old Mr. Toad could be proud of anything that he laughed and laughed , and his laugh was deep and grumbly-rumbly .
5 Then Jimmy told him the plan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson and asked Buster if he would help .
6 Buster 's eyes twinkled as he promised to do what Jimmy asked .
7 Then Jimmy went straight to where Old Mr. Toad was sitting all puffed up , taking a sun-bath .
8 `` Buster Bear has just sent word by me to ask if you will honor him by dining with him to-morrow at the rotted chestnut stump near the edge of the Green Forest , '' said Jimmy in his politest manner .
9 Now if Old Mr. Toad was puffed up before , just think how he swelled out when he heard that .
10 Jimmy Skunk was actually afraid that he would burst .
11 `` You may tell my friend , Buster Bear , that I shall be very happy to honor him by dining with him , '' replied Old Mr. Toad with a very grand air .
12 Jimmy went off to deliver his reply , and Old Mr. Toad sat and puffed himself out until he could hardly breathe .
13 `` Honor him by dining with him , '' said he over and over to himself .
14 `` I never was so flattered in my life . ''
15 XXII OLD MR. TOAD LEARNS A LESSON Pride is like a great big bubble ; You 'll find there 's nothing in it .
16 Prick it and for all your trouble It has vanished in a minute .
17 Old Mr. Toad was so puffed out with pride as he started for the Green Forest to dine with Buster Bear that those who saw him wondered if he would n't burst before he got there .
18 Everybody knew where he was going , and this made Old Mr. Toad feel more important and proud than ever .
19 He might not have felt quite so puffed up if he had known just how it had come about that he received this second invitation to dine with Buster Bear .
20 When Jimmy Skunk brought it to him , Jimmy did n't tell him that Buster had been asked to send the invitation , and that it was all part of a plan on the part of some of Old Mr. Toad 's old friends and neighbors to teach him a lesson .
21 No , indeed , Jimmy did n't say XXXXX at all about that !	anything		Everybody|Sir|anything|eyes|invitation|laugh|life|plan|reply|trouble

1 Their occupation consisted in helping those in misfortune , and they were as gentle and benevolent as Lagree had been cruel and spiteful .
2 The third Fairy comforted the poor traveller , begged her not to lose heart , and assured her that her troubles should be rewarded .
3 She accompanied her advice by the gift of a crystal smelling-bottle , with strict orders only to open it in case of urgent need .
4 Fairer-than-a-Fairy thanked her warmly , and resumed her way cheered by pleasant thoughts .
5 After a time her road led through a wood , full of soft airs and sweet odours , and before she had gone a hundred yards she saw a wonderful silver Castle suspended by strong silver chains to four of the largest trees .
6 It was so perfectly hung that a gentle breeze rocked it sufficiently to send you pleasantly to sleep .
7 Fairer-than-a-Fairy felt a strong desire to enter this Castle , but besides being hung a little above the ground there seemed to be neither doors nor windows .
8 She had no doubt -LRB- though really I can not think why -RRB- that the moment had come in which to use the nut which had been given her .
9 She opened it , and out came a diminutive hall porter at whose belt hung a tiny chain , at the end of which was a golden key half as long as the smallest pin you ever saw .
10 The Princess climbed up one of the silver chains , holding in her hand the little porter who , in spite of his minute size , opened a secret door with his golden key and let her in .
11 She entered a magnificent room which appeared to occupy the entire Castle , and which was lighted by gold and jewelled stars in the ceiling .
12 In the midst of this room stood a couch , draped with curtains of all the colours of the rainbow , and suspended by golden cords so that it swayed with the Castle in a manner which rocked its occupant delightfully to sleep .
13 On this elegant couch lay Prince Rainbow , looking more beautiful than ever , and sunk in profound slumber , in which he had been held ever since his disappearance .
14 Fairy-than-a-Fairy , who now saw him for the first time in his real shape , hardly dared to gaze at him , fearing lest his appearance might not be in keeping with the voice and language which had won her heart .
15 At the same time she could not help feeling rather hurt at the apparent indifference with which she was received .
16 She related all the dangers and difficulties she had gone through , and though she repeated the story twenty times in a loud clear voice , the Prince slept on and took no heed .
17 She then had recourse to the golden pomegranate , and on opening it found that all the seeds were as many little violins which flew up in the vaulted roof and at once began playing melodiously .
18 The Prince was not completely roused , but he opened his eyes a little and looked all the handsomer .
19 Impatient at not being recognised , Fairer-than-a-Fairy now drew out her third present , and on opening the crystal scent-bottle a little syren flew out , who silenced the violins and then sang close to the Prince 's ear the story of all his lady love had suffered in her search for him .
20 She added some gentle reproaches to her tale , but before she had got far he was wide awake , and transported with joy threw himself at the Princess 's feet .
21 At the same moment the walls of the XXXXX expanded and opened out , revealing a golden throne covered with jewels .	room		advice|desire|difficulties|gift|heart|orders|rainbow|room|seeds|voice

1 He is a man , and none of us can look him between the eyes . ''
2 Akela lifted his head again and said , `` He has eaten our food .
3 He has slept with us .
4 He has driven game for us .
5 He has broken no word of the Law of the Jungle . ''
6 `` Also , I paid for him with a bull when he was accepted .
7 The worth of a bull is little , but Bagheera 's honor is something that he will perhaps fight for , '' said Bagheera in his gentlest voice .
8 `` A bull paid ten years ago ! ''
9 the Pack snarled .
10 `` What do we care for bones ten years old ? ''
11 `` Or for a pledge ? ''
12 said Bagheera , his white teeth bared under his lip .
13 `` Well are ye called the Free People ! ''
14 `` No man 's cub can run with the people of the jungle , '' howled Shere Khan .
15 `` Give him to me ! ''
16 `` He is our brother in all but blood , '' Akela went on , `` and ye would kill him here !
17 In truth , I have lived too long .
18 Some of ye are eaters of cattle , and of others I have heard that , under Shere Khan 's teaching , ye go by dark night and snatch children from the villager 's doorstep .
19 Therefore I know ye to be cowards , and it is to cowards I speak .
20 It is certain that I must die , and my life is of no worth , or I would offer that in the man-cub 's place .
21 But for the sake of the Honor of the Pack , -- a little matter that by being without a leader ye have forgotten , -- I promise that if ye let the man-cub go to his own XXXXX , I will not , when my time comes to die , bare one tooth against ye .	place		bull|food|game|head|honor|jungle|place|pledge|voice|word

1 When the summer came Frances asserted herself .
2 The Farquhars went to Green Harbour every summer .
3 But this time Frances said she would not go , and stuck to it .
4 The whole family took turns coaxing her and had nothing to show for their pains .
5 `` I 'm going up to Windy Meadows to stay with Aunt Eleanor while you are at the Harbour , '' she declared .
6 `` She has invited me often enough . ''
7 Ned whistled .
8 `` Jolly time you 'll have of it , Sis .
9 Windy Meadows is about as festive as a funeral .
10 And Aunt Eleanor is n't lively , to put it in the mildest possible way . ''
11 `` I do n't care if she is n't .
12 I want to get somewhere where people wo n't look at me and talk about -- that , '' said Frances , looking ready to cry .
13 Ned went out and swore at Holcomb again , and then advised his mother to humour Frances .
14 Accordingly , Frances went to Windy Meadows .
15 Windy Meadows was , as Ned had said , the reverse of lively .
16 It was a pretty country place , with a sort of fag-end by way of a little fishing village , huddled on a wind-swept bit of beach , locally known as the `` Cove . ''
17 Aunt Eleanor was one of those delightful people , so few and far between in this world , who have perfectly mastered the art of minding their own business exclusively .
18 She left Frances in peace .
19 She knew that her niece had had `` some love trouble or other , '' and had n't gotten over it rightly .
20 `` It 's always best to let those things take their course , '' said this philosophical lady to her `` help '' and confidant , Margaret Ann Peabody .
21 `` She 'll get over it in XXXXX -- though she does n't think so now , bless you . ''	time		art|confidant|course|lady|niece|peace|people|summer|time|way

1 But like all the rest , I was blinded by his charm .
2 Mother was almost the only one who did not worship at his shrine , and very often she dropped hints about penniless adventurers that made Eliza very indignant .
3 `` From the first he had paid Eliza marked attention and seemed utterly bewitched by her .
4 Well , his was an easy winning .
5 Eliza loved him with her whole impulsive , girlish heart and made no attempt to hide it .
6 `` I shall never forget the night they were first engaged .
7 It was Eliza 's birthday , and we were invited to a ball that evening .
8 This yellow gown is the very one she wore .
9 I suppose that is why she put it away here -- the gown she wore on the happiest night of her life .
10 I had never seen her look more beautiful -- her neck and arms were bare , and she wore this string of pearls and carried a bouquet of her favourite white roses .
11 `` When we reached home after the dance , Eliza had her happy secret to tell us .
12 She was engaged to Willis Starr , and they were to be married in early spring .
13 `` Willis Starr certainly seemed to be an ideal lover , and Eliza was so perfectly happy that she seemed to grow more beautiful and radiant every day .
14 `` Well , Amy , the wedding day was set .
15 Eliza was to be married from the Grange , as her own mother was dead , and I was to be bridesmaid .
16 We made her wedding dress together , she and I. Girls were not above making their own gowns then , and not a stitch was set in Eliza 's save those put there by loving fingers and blessed by loving wishes .
17 It was I who draped the veil over her sunny curls -- see how yellow and creased it is now , but it was as white as snow that day .
18 `` A week before the wedding , Willis Starr was spending the evening at the Grange .
19 We were all chattering gaily about the coming event , and in speaking of the invited guests Eliza said something about the other Eliza Laurance , the great heiress , looking archly at Willis over her shoulder as she spoke .
20 It was some merry badinage about the cousin whose namesake she was but whom she so little resembled .
21 `` We all laughed , but I shall never forget the XXXXX that came over Willis Starr 's face .	look		cousin|heart|home|life|look|lover|neck|shrine|winning|worship

1 Then the elephants were chained by their hind legs to their big stumps of pickets , and extra ropes were fitted to the new elephants , and the fodder was piled before them , and the hill drivers went back to Petersen Sahib through the afternoon light , telling the plains drivers to be extra careful that night , and laughing when the plains drivers asked the reason .
2 Little Toomai attended to Kala Nag 's supper , and as evening fell , wandered through the camp , unspeakably happy , in search of a tom-tom .
3 When an Indian child 's heart is full , he does not run about and make a noise in an irregular fashion .
4 He sits down to a sort of revel all by himself .
5 And Little Toomai had been spoken to by Petersen Sahib !
6 If he had not found what he wanted , I believe he would have been ill .
7 But the sweetmeat seller in the camp lent him a little tom-tom -- a drum beaten with the flat of the hand -- and he sat down , cross-legged , before Kala Nag as the stars began to come out , the tom-tom in his lap , and he thumped and he thumped and he thumped , and the more he thought of the great honor that had been done to him , the more he thumped , all alone among the elephant fodder .
8 There was no tune and no words , but the thumping made him happy .
9 The new elephants strained at their ropes , and squealed and trumpeted from time to time , and he could hear his mother in the camp hut putting his small brother to sleep with an old , old song about the great God Shiv , who once told all the animals what they should eat .
10 It is a very soothing lullaby , and the first verse says : Shiv , who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow , Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago , Gave to each his portion , food and toil and fate , From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate .
11 All things made he -- Shiva the Preserver .
12 Mahadeo !
13 Mahadeo !
14 He made all -- Thorn for the camel , fodder for the kine , And mother 's heart for sleepy head , O little son of mine !
15 Little Toomai came in with a joyous tunk-a-tunk at the end of each verse , till he felt sleepy and stretched himself on the fodder at Kala Nag 's side .
16 At last the elephants began to lie down one after another as is their custom , till only Kala Nag at the right of the line was left standing up ; and he rocked slowly from side to side , his ears put forward to listen to the night wind as it blew very slowly across the hills .
17 The air was full of all the night noises that , taken together , make one big silence -- the click of one bamboo stem against the other , the rustle of something alive in the undergrowth , the scratch and squawk of a half-waked bird -LRB- birds are awake in the night much more often than we imagine -RRB- , and the fall of water ever so far away .
18 Little Toomai slept for some time , and when he waked it was brilliant moonlight , and Kala Nag was still standing up with his ears cocked .
19 Little Toomai turned , rustling in the fodder , and watched the curve of his big back against half the stars in heaven , and while he watched he heard , so far away that it sounded no more than a pinhole of noise pricked through the stillness , the `` hoot-toot '' of a wild elephant .
20 All the elephants in the lines jumped up as if they had been shot , and their grunts at last waked the sleeping mahouts , and they came out and drove in the picket pegs with big mallets , and tightened this rope and knotted that till all was quiet .
21 One new elephant had nearly grubbed up his XXXXX , and Big Toomai took off Kala Nag 's leg chain and shackled that elephant fore-foot to hind-foot , but slipped a loop of grass string round Kala Nag 's leg , and told him to remember that he was tied fast .	picket		Beggar|camel|camp|custom|elephants|lullaby|picket|ropes|silence|time

1 The blind was up and she could see Miss LeMar writing at her table .
2 Her profile was clear and distinct against the lamplight .
3 Estella reflected without the least envy that Miss LeMar was very beautiful .
4 She had never seen anyone who was really beautiful before -- beautiful with the loveliness of the heroines in the novels she sometimes read or the pictures she had seen .
5 Estella Bowes was not pretty .
6 She was a nice-looking girl , with clear eyes , rosy cheeks , and a pervading air of the content and happiness her life had always known .
7 She was an orphan and lived with her uncle and aunt .
8 In the summer they sometimes took a boarder for a month or two , and this summer Miss LeMar had come .
9 She had been with them about a week .
10 She was an actress from the city and had around her all the glamour of a strange , unknown life .
11 Nothing was known about her .
12 The Boweses liked her well enough as a boarder .
13 Estella admired and held her in awe .
14 She wondered what Spencer would think of this beautiful woman .
15 He had not yet seen her .
16 It was quite dark when he came .
17 Estella opened the gate for him , but he got out of his buggy and walked up the lane beside her with his arm about her .
18 Miss LeMar 's light had removed to the parlour where she was singing , accompanying herself on the cottage organ .
19 Estella felt annoyed .
20 The parlour was considered her private domain on Wednesday and Saturday night , but Miss LeMar did not know that .
21 `` Who is XXXXX ? ''	singing		Nothing|actress|anyone|awe|boarder|content|happiness|life|novels|singing

1 I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar-cane : I will go out to my own kind , and the wood-folk in their lairs .
2 I will go out until the day , until the morning break -- Out to the wind 's untainted kiss , the water 's clean caress ; I will forget my ankle-ring and snap my picket stake .
3 I will revisit my lost loves , and playmates masterless !
4 Kala Nag , which means Black Snake , had served the Indian Government in every way that an elephant could serve it for forty-seven years , and as he was fully twenty years old when he was caught , that makes him nearly seventy -- a ripe age for an elephant .
5 He remembered pushing , with a big leather pad on his forehead , at a gun stuck in deep mud , and that was before the Afghan War of 1842 , and he had not then come to his full strength .
6 His mother Radha Pyari , -- Radha the darling , -- who had been caught in the same drive with Kala Nag , told him , before his little milk tusks had dropped out , that elephants who were afraid always got hurt .
7 Kala Nag knew that that advice was good , for the first time that he saw a shell burst he backed , screaming , into a stand of piled rifles , and the bayonets pricked him in all his softest places .
8 So , before he was twenty-five , he gave up being afraid , and so he was the best-loved and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of India .
9 He had carried tents , twelve hundred pounds ' weight of tents , on the march in Upper India .
10 He had been hoisted into a ship at the end of a steam crane and taken for days across the water , and made to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India , and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in Magdala , and had come back again in the steamer entitled , so the soldiers said , to the Abyssinian War medal .
11 He had seen his fellow elephants die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid , ten years later ; and afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles south to haul and pile big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein .
12 There he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was shirking his fair share of work .
13 After that he was taken off timber-hauling , and employed , with a few score other elephants who were trained to the business , in helping to catch wild elephants among the Garo hills .
14 Elephants are very strictly preserved by the Indian Government .
15 There is one whole department which does nothing else but hunt them , and catch them , and break them in , and send them up and down the country as they are needed for work .
16 Kala Nag stood ten fair feet at the shoulders , and his tusks had been cut off short at five feet , and bound round the ends , to prevent them splitting , with bands of copper ; but he could do more with those stumps than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpened ones .
17 When , after weeks and weeks of cautious driving of scattered elephants across the hills , the forty or fifty wild monsters were driven into the last stockade , and the big drop gate , made of tree trunks lashed together , jarred down behind them , Kala Nag , at the word of command , would go into that flaring , trumpeting pandemonium -LRB- generally at night , when the flicker of the torches made it difficult to judge distances -RRB- , and , picking out the biggest and wildest tusker of the mob , would hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the backs of the other elephants roped and tied the smaller ones .
18 There was nothing in the way of fighting that Kala Nag , the old wise Black Snake , did not know , for he had stood up more than once in his time to the charge of the wounded tiger , and , curling up his soft trunk to be out of harm 's way , had knocked the springing brute sideways in mid-air with a quick sickle cut of his head , that he had invented all by himself ; had knocked him over , and kneeled upon him with his huge knees till the life went out with a gasp and a howl , and there was only a fluffy striped thing on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail .
19 `` Yes , '' said Big Toomai , his driver , the son of Black Toomai who had taken him to Abyssinia , and grandson of Toomai of the Elephants who had seen him caught , `` there is nothing that the Black Snake fears except me .
20 He has seen three generations of us feed him and groom him , and he will live to see four . ''
21 `` He is afraid of me also , '' said Little Toomai , standing up to his full height of four XXXXX , with only one rag upon him .	feet		Elephants|feet|generations|grandson|ground|head|kiss|mother|shoulders|tusks

1 He wished the maiden would let him have it in his hand , but he did not quite like to ask her to do so , and after a while she put it back into the box .
2 A few days after they were again speaking of the magic ring , and the youth said , ' I do not think it possible that the ring can have all the power you say it has . '
3 Then the maiden opened the box and took the ring out , and it glittered as she held it like the clearest sunbeam .
4 She put it on the middle finger of her left hand , and told the youth to take a knife and try as hard as he could to cut her with it , for he would not be able to hurt her .
5 He was unwilling at first , but the maiden insisted .
6 Then he tried , at first only in play , and then seriously , to strike her with the knife , but an invisible wall of iron seemed to be between them , and the maiden stood before him laughing and unhurt .
7 Then she put the ring on her third finger , and in an instant she had vanished from his eyes .
8 Presently she was beside him again laughing , and holding the ring between her fingers .
9 ` Do let me try , ' said the youth , ` whether I can do these wonderful things . '
10 The maiden , suspecting no treachery , gave him the magic ring .
11 The youth pretended to have forgotten what to do , and asked what finger he must put the ring on so that no sharp weapon could hurt him ? '
12 ` Oh , the middle finger of your left hand , ' the maiden answered , laughing .
13 She took the knife and tried to strike the youth , and he even tried to cut himself with it , but found it impossible .
14 Then he asked the maiden to show him how to split stones and rocks with the help of the ring .
15 So she led him into a courtyard where stood a great boulder-stone .
16 ` Now , ' she said , ` put the ring upon the thumb of your left hand , and you will see how strong that hand has become .
17 The youth did so , and found to his astonishment that with a single blow of his fist the stone flew into a thousand pieces .
18 Then the youth bethought him that he who does not use his luck when he has it is a fool , and that this was a chance which once lost might never return .
19 So while they stood laughing at the shattered stone he placed the ring , as if in play , upon the third finger of his left hand .
20 ` Now , ' said the maiden , ` you are invisible to me until you take the ring off again . '
21 But the XXXXX had no mind to do that ; on the contrary , he went farther off , then put the ring on the little finger of his left hand , and soared into the air like a bird .	youth		eyes|fingers|maiden|pieces|play|power|speaking|stones|weapon|youth

1 After this the Giant accompanied him down to the sea , where he saw a stone boat which was just big enough to hold the two of them and the Dog .
2 On reaching the mainland the Giant took a friendly farewell of Ring , and told him he might take possession of all that was in the island after he and his wife died , which would happen within two weeks from that time .
3 The Prince thanked him for this and for all his other kindnesses , and the Giant returned home , while Ring went up some distance from the sea ; but he did not know what land he had come to , and was afraid to speak to the Dog .
4 After he had walked on in silence for a time the Dog spoke to him and said : ` You do n't seem to have much curiosity , seeing you never ask my name . '
5 The Prince then forced himself to ask , ` What is your name ? '
6 ` You had best call me Snati-Snati , ' said the Dog .
7 ` Now we are coming to a King 's seat , and you must ask the King to keep us all winter , and to give you a little room for both of us . '
8 The Prince now began to be less afraid of the Dog .
9 They came to the King and asked him to keep them all the winter , to which he agreed .
10 When the King 's men saw the Dog they began to laugh at it , and make as if they would tease it ; but when the Prince saw this he advised them not to do it , or they might have the worst of it .
11 They replied that they did n't care a bit what he thought .
12 After Ring had been with the King for some days the latter began to think there was a great deal in him , and esteemed him more than the others .
13 The King , however , had a counsellor called Red , who became very jealous when he saw how much the King esteemed Ring ; and one day he talked to him , and said he could not understand why he had so good an opinion of this stranger , who had not yet shown himself superior to other men in anything .
14 The King replied that it was only a short time since he had come there .
15 Red then asked him to send them both to cut down wood next morning , and see which of them could do most work .
16 Snati-Snati heard this and told it to Ring , advising him to ask the King for two axes , so that he might have one in reserve if the first one got broken .
17 Next morning the King asked Ring and Red to go and cut down trees for him , and both agreed .
18 Ring got the two axes , and each went his own way ; but when the Prince had got out into the wood Snati took one of the axes and began to hew along with him .
19 In the evening the King came to look over their day 's work , as Red had proposed , and found that Ring 's wood-heap was more than twice as big . '
20 I suspected , ' said the King , ` that Ring was not quite useless ; never have I seen such a day 's work . '
21 XXXXX was now in far greater esteem with the King than before , and Red was all the more discontented .	Ring		Dog|Ring|bit|deal|mainland|reserve|room|silence|stranger|time

1 The courtier peeped into the ship , and , seeing what it was , instantly went back to the King and told him that it was a flying ship , and that it was manned by a few peasants .
2 Then the King remembered his royal oath ; but he made up his mind that he would never consent to let the Princess marry a poor peasant .
3 So he thought and thought , and then said to himself : ' I will give him some impossible tasks to perform ; that will be the best way of getting rid of him . '
4 And he there and then decided to despatch one of his courtiers to the Simpleton , with the command that he was to fetch the King the healing water from the world 's end before he had finished his dinner .
5 But while the King was still instructing the courtier exactly what he was to say , the first man of the ship 's company , the one with the miraculous power of hearing , had overheard the King 's words , and hastily reported them to the poor Simpleton .
6 ` Alas , alas ! '
7 he cried ; ` what am I to do now ?
8 It would take me quite a year , possibly my whole life , to find the water . '
9 ` Never fear , ' said his fleet-footed comrade , ' I will fetch what the King wants . '
10 Just then the courtier arrived , bearing the King 's command .
11 ` Tell his Majesty , ' said the Simpleton , ` that his orders shall be obeyed ; ` and forthwith the swift runner unbound the foot that was strung up behind his ear and started off , and in less than no time had reached the world 's end and drawn the healing water from the well .
12 ` Dear me , ' he thought to himself , ` that 's rather tiring !
13 I 'll just rest for a few minutes ; it will be some little time yet before the King has got to dessert . '
14 So he threw himself down on the grass , and , as the sun was very dazzling , he closed his eyes , and in a few seconds had fallen sound asleep .
15 In the meantime all the ship 's crew were anxiously awaiting him ; the King 's dinner would soon be finished , and their comrade had not yet returned .
16 So the man with the marvellous quick hearing lay down and , putting his ear to the ground , listened .
17 ` That 's a nice sort of fellow ! '
18 he suddenly exclaimed .
19 ` He 's lying on the ground , snoring hard ! '
20 At this the marksman seized his gun , took aim , and fired in the direction of the world 's end , in order to awaken the sluggard .
21 And a moment later the swift XXXXX reappeared , and , stepping on board the ship , handed the healing water to the Simpleton .	runner		Dear|Majesty|comrade|direction|ear|foot|hearing|life|runner|time

1 Roll to the water tanks .
2 Roll and plunge !
3 Get to the water ! ''
4 Bagheera heard , and the cry that told him Mowgli was safe gave him new courage .
5 He worked his way desperately , inch by inch , straight for the reservoirs , halting in silence .
6 Then from the ruined wall nearest the jungle rose up the rumbling war-shout of Baloo .
7 The old Bear had done his best , but he could not come before .
8 `` Bagheera , '' he shouted , `` I am here .
9 I climb !
10 I haste !
11 Ahuwora !
12 The stones slip under my feet !
13 Wait my coming , O most infamous Bandar-log ! ''
14 He panted up the terrace only to disappear to the head in a wave of monkeys , but he threw himself squarely on his haunches , and , spreading out his forepaws , hugged as many as he could hold , and then began to hit with a regular bat-bat-bat , like the flipping strokes of a paddle wheel .
15 A crash and a splash told Mowgli that Bagheera had fought his way to the tank where the monkeys could not follow .
16 The Panther lay gasping for breath , his head just out of the water , while the monkeys stood three deep on the red steps , dancing up and down with rage , ready to spring upon him from all sides if he came out to help Baloo .
17 It was then that Bagheera lifted up his dripping chin , and in despair gave the Snake 's Call for protection -- `` We be of one blood , ye and I '' -- for he believed that Kaa had turned tail at the last minute .
18 Even Baloo , half smothered under the monkeys on the edge of the terrace , could not help chuckling as he heard the Black Panther asking for help .
19 Kaa had only just worked his way over the west wall , landing with a wrench that dislodged a coping stone into the ditch .
20 He had no intention of losing any advantage of the ground , and coiled and uncoiled himself once or twice , to be sure that every foot of his long body was in working order .
21 All that while the fight with Baloo went on , and the XXXXX yelled in the tank round Bagheera , and Mang the Bat , flying to and fro , carried the news of the great battle over the jungle , till even Hathi the Wild Elephant trumpeted , and , far away , scattered bands of the Monkey-Folk woke and came leaping along the tree-roads to help their comrades in the Cold Lairs , and the noise of the fight roused all the day birds for miles round .	monkeys		courage|feet|ground|half|haste|monkeys|plunge|stones|wall|water

1 ` You , my wife , the companion of my days , will follow me ere many moons have waned to the island of the blest .
2 But for you , O my children , whose lives are but newly begun , the wickedness , unkindness , and ingratitude from which I fled are before you .
3 Yet I shall go hence in peace , my children , if you will promise always to love each other , and never to forsake your youngest brother .
4 ` Never ! '
5 they replied , holding out their hands .
6 And the hunter died content .
7 Scarcely eight moons had passed when , just as he had said , the wife went forth , and followed her husband ; but before leaving her children she bade the two elder ones think of their promise never to forsake the younger , for he was a child , and weak .
8 And while the snow lay thick upon the ground , they tended him and cherished him ; but when the earth showed green again , the heart of the young man stirred within him , and he longed to see the wigwams of the village where his father 's youth was spent .
9 Therefore he opened all his heart to his sister , who answered : ` My brother , I understand your longing for our fellow-men , whom here we can not see .
10 But remember our father 's words .
11 Shall we not seek our own pleasures , and forget the little one ? '
12 But he would not listen , and , making no reply , he took his bow and arrows and left the hut .
13 The snows fell and melted , yet he never returned ; and at last the heart of the girl grew cold and hard , and her little boy became a burden in her eyes , till one day she spoke thus to him : ` See , there is food for many days to come .
14 Stay here within the shelter of the hut .
15 I go to seek our brother , and when I have found him I shall return hither . '
16 But when , after hard journeying , she reached the village where her brother dwelt , and saw that he had a wife and was happy , and when she , too , was sought by a young brave , then she also forgot the boy alone in the forest , and thought only of her husband .
17 Now as soon as the little boy had eaten all the food which his sister had left him , he went out into the woods , and gathered berries and dug up roots , and while the sun shone he was contented and had his fill .
18 But when the snows began and the wind howled , then his stomach felt empty and his limbs cold , and he hid in trees all the night , and only crept out to eat what the wolves had left behind .
19 And by-and-by , having no other friends , he sought their company , and sat by while they devoured their prey , and they grew to know him , and gave him food .
20 And without them he would have died in the snow .
21 But at last the XXXXX melted , and the ice upon the great lake , and as the wolves went down to the shore , the boy went after them .	snows		Shall|arrows|blest|boy|eyes|hut|moons|peace|snows|trees

1 They both reared up facing each other , and I was expecting a furious fight , when a gurgly , rumbly voice , called out of the darkness to the right -- `` Children , what are you fighting about there ?
2 Be quiet . ''
3 Both beasts dropped down with a snort of disgust , for neither horse nor mule can bear to listen to an elephant 's voice .
4 `` It 's Two Tails ! ''
5 said the troop-horse .
6 `` I ca n't stand him .
7 A tail at each end is n't fair ! ''
8 `` My feelings exactly , '' said Billy , crowding into the troop-horse for company .
9 `` We 're very alike in some things . ''
10 `` I suppose we 've inherited them from our mothers , '' said the troop horse .
11 `` It 's not worth quarreling about .
12 Hi !
13 Two Tails , are you tied up ? ''
14 `` Yes , '' said Two Tails , with a laugh all up his trunk .
15 `` I 'm picketed for the night .
16 I 've heard what you fellows have been saying .
17 But do n't be afraid .
18 I 'm not coming over . ''
19 The bullocks and the camel said , half aloud , `` Afraid of Two Tails -- what nonsense ! ''
20 And the bullocks went on , `` We are sorry that you heard , but it is true .
21 Two XXXXX , why are you afraid of the guns when they fire ? ''	Tails		Afraid|Tails|beasts|camel|darkness|feelings|laugh|nonsense|things|trunk

1 By and by the children fell asleep , one on Aunt Cyrilla 's lap and one on Lucy Rose 's , and two on the seat .
2 Aunt Cyrilla and the pale girl helped the mother make up beds for them .
3 The minister gave his overcoat and the sealskin lady came forward with a shawl .
4 `` This will do for the baby , '' she said .
5 `` We must get up some Santa Claus for these youngsters , '' said the khaki boy .
6 `` Let 's hang their stockings on the wall and fill 'em up as best we can .
7 I 've nothing about me but some hard cash and a jack-knife .
8 I 'll give each of 'em a quarter and the boy can have the knife . ''
9 `` I 've nothing but money either , '' said the sealskin lady regretfully .
10 Aunt Cyrilla glanced at the little mother .
11 She had fallen asleep with her head against the seat-back .
12 `` I 've got a basket over there , '' said Aunt Cyrilla firmly , `` and I 've some presents in it that I was taking to my nephew 's children .
13 I 'm going to give 'em to these .
14 As for the money , I think the mother is the one for it to go to .
15 She 's been telling me her story , and a pitiful one it is .
16 Let 's make up a little purse among us for a Christmas present . ''
17 The idea met with favour .
18 The khaki boy passed his cap and everybody contributed .
19 The sealskin lady put in a crumpled note .
20 When Aunt Cyrilla straightened it out she saw that it was for twenty dollars .
21 Meanwhile , Lucy Rose had brought the XXXXX .	basket		baby|basket|cap|cash|lap|money|overcoat|purse|seat|stockings

1 Next night she crept out again to him .
2 There he was alive , but very weak ; he could only open his eyes for a moment and look at Thumbelina , who was standing in front of him with a piece of rotten wood in her hand , for she had no other lantern .
3 ` Thank you , pretty little child ! '
4 said the swallow to her . '
5 I am so beautifully warm !
6 Soon I shall regain my strength , and then I shall be able to fly out again into the warm sunshine . '
7 ` Oh ! '
8 she said , ` it is very cold outside ; it is snowing and freezing !
9 stay in your warm bed ; I will take care of you ! '
10 Then she brought him water in a petal , which he drank , after which he related to her how he had torn one of his wings on a bramble , so that he could not fly as fast as the other swallows , who had flown far away to warmer lands .
11 So at last he had dropped down exhausted , and then he could remember no more .
12 The whole winter he remained down there , and Thumbelina looked after him and nursed him tenderly .
13 Neither the mole nor the field-mouse learnt anything of this , for they could not bear the poor swallow .
14 When the spring came , and the sun warmed the earth again , the swallow said farewell to Thumbelina , who opened the hole in the roof for him which the mole had made .
15 The sun shone brightly down upon her , and the swallow asked her if she would go with him ; she could sit upon his back .
16 Thumbelina wanted very much to fly far away into the green wood , but she knew that the old field-mouse would be sad if she ran away .
17 ` No , I must n't come ! '
18 she said .
19 ` Farewell , dear good little girl ! '
20 said the swallow , and flew off into the sunshine .
21 Thumbelina gazed after him with the tears standing in her XXXXX , for she was very fond of the swallow .	eyes		earth|eyes|farewell|girl|lantern|moment|spring|sun|water|winter

1 But a raven unexpectedly gave him this advice : ` Ride upon the horse , and push the spear against the ground , as if you were pushing off a boat from the land . '
2 The youth did so , and found that in this way he could easily move forwards .
3 The Dragon had his monstrous jaws wide open , all ready for his expected prey .
4 A few paces nearer , and man and horse would have been swallowed up by them !
5 The youth trembled with horror , and his blood ran cold , yet he did not lose his courage ; but , holding the iron spear upright in his hand , he brought it down with all his might right through the monster 's lower jaw .
6 Then quick as lightning he sprang from his horse before the Dragon had time to shut his mouth .
7 A fearful clap like thunder , which could be heard for miles around , now warned him that the Dragon 's jaws had closed upon the spear .
8 When the youth turned round he saw the point of the spear sticking up high above the Dragon 's upper jaw , and knew that the other end must be fastened firmly to the ground ; but the Dragon had got his teeth fixed in the iron horse , which was now useless .
9 The youth now hastened to fasten down the chains to the ground by means of the enormous iron pegs which he had provided .
10 The death struggle of the monster lasted three days and three nights ; in his writhing he beat his tail so violently against the ground , that at ten miles ' distance the earth trembled as if with an earthquake .
11 When he at length lost power to move his tail , the youth with the help of the ring took up a stone which twenty ordinary men could not have moved , and beat the Dragon so hard about the head with it that very soon the monster lay lifeless before him .
12 You can fancy how great was the rejoicing when the news was spread abroad that the terrible monster was dead .
13 His conqueror was received into the city with as much pomp as if he had been the mightiest of kings .
14 The old King did not need to urge his daughter to marry the slayer of the Dragon ; he found her already willing to bestow her hand upon this hero , who had done all alone what whole armies had tried in vain to do .
15 In a few days a magnificent wedding was celebrated , at which the rejoicings lasted four whole weeks , for all the neighbouring kings had met together to thank the man who had freed the world from their common enemy .
16 But everyone forgot amid the general joy that they ought to have buried the Dragon 's monstrous body , for it began now to have such a bad smell that no one could live in the neighbourhood , and before long the whole air was poisoned , and a pestilence broke out which destroyed many hundreds of people .
17 In this distress , the King 's son-in-law resolved to seek help once more from the Eastern magician , to whom he at once travelled through the air like a bird by the help of the ring .
18 But there is a proverb which says that ill-gotten gains never prosper , and the Prince found that the stolen ring brought him ill-luck after all .
19 The Witch-maiden had never rested night nor day until she had found out where the ring was .
20 As soon as she had discovered by means of magical arts that the Prince in the form of a bird was on his way to the Eastern magician , she changed herself into an eagle and watched in the air until the bird she was waiting for came in sight , for she knew him at once by the ring which was hung round his neck by a ribbon .
21 Then the eagle pounced upon the bird , and the moment she seized him in her talons she tore the ring from his XXXXX before the man in bird 's shape had time to prevent her .	neck		air|body|daughter|distress|enemy|man|neck|ring|sight|time

1 ` It has my gracious approval . '
2 And then he nodded pleasantly , and examined the empty loom , for he would not say that he could see nothing .
3 His whole Court round him looked and looked , and saw no more than the others ; but they said like the Emperor , ` Oh !
4 it is beautiful ! '
5 And they advised him to wear these new and magnificent clothes for the first time at the great procession which was soon to take place .
6 ` Splendid !
7 Lovely !
8 Most beautiful ! '
9 went from mouth to mouth ; everyone seemed delighted over them , and the Emperor gave to the impostors the title of Court weavers to the Emperor .
10 Throughout the whole of the night before the morning on which the procession was to take place , the impostors were up and were working by the light of over sixteen candles .
11 The people could see that they were very busy making the Emperor 's new clothes ready .
12 They pretended they were taking the cloth from the loom , cut with huge scissors in the air , sewed with needles without thread , and then said at last , ` Now the clothes are finished ! '
13 The Emperor came himself with his most distinguished knights , and each impostor held up his arm just as if he were holding something , and said , ` See !
14 here are the breeches !
15 Here is the coat !
16 Here the cloak ! '
17 and so on .
18 ` Spun clothes are so comfortable that one would imagine one had nothing on at all ; but that is the beauty of it ! '
19 ` Yes , ' said all the knights , but they could see nothing , for there was nothing there .
20 ` Will it please your Majesty graciously to take off your clothes , ' said the impostors , ` then we will put on the new clothes , here before the mirror . '
21 The Emperor took off all his clothes , and the impostors placed themselves before him as if they were putting on each part of his new XXXXX which was ready , and the Emperor turned and bent himself in front of the mirror .	clothes		Majesty|air|approval|cloth|clothes|knights|light|procession|something|time

1 Every night it flew round the Glass Mountain keeping a careful look-out , and no sooner had the moon emerged from the clouds than the bird rose up from the apple-tree , and circling round in the air , caught sight of the sleeping youth .
2 Greedy for carrion , and sure that this must be a fresh corpse , the bird swooped down upon the boy .
3 But he was awake now , and perceiving the eagle , he determined by its help to save himself .
4 The eagle dug its sharp claws into the tender flesh of the youth , but he bore the pain without a sound , and seized the bird 's two feet with his hands .
5 The creature in terror lifted him high up into the air and began to circle round the tower of the castle .
6 The youth held on bravely .
7 He saw the glittering palace , which by the pale rays of the moon looked like a dim lamp ; and he saw the high windows , and round one of them a balcony in which the beautiful Princess sat lost in sad thoughts .
8 Then the boy saw that he was close to the apple-tree , and drawing a small knife from his belt , he cut off both the eagle 's feet .
9 The bird rose up in the air in its agony and vanished into the clouds , and the youth fell on to the broad branches of the apple-tree .
10 Then he drew out the claws of the eagle 's feet that had remained in his flesh , and put the peel of one of the golden apples on the wound , and in one moment it was healed and well again .
11 He pulled several of the beautiful apples and put them in his pocket ; then he entered the castle .
12 The door was guarded by a great dragon , but as soon as he threw an apple at it , the beast vanished .
13 At the same moment a gate opened , and the youth perceived a courtyard full of flowers and beautiful trees , and on a balcony sat the lovely enchanted Princess with her retinue .
14 As soon as she saw the youth , she ran towards him and greeted him as her husband and master .
15 She gave him all her treasures , and the youth became a rich and mighty ruler .
16 But he never returned to the earth , for only the mighty eagle , who had been the guardian of the Princess and of the castle , could have carried on his wings the enormous treasure down to the world .
17 But as the eagle had lost its feet it died , and its body was found in a wood on the Glass Mountain .
18 ... .
19 .
20 One day when the youth was strolling about in the palace garden with the Princess , his wife , he looked down over the edge of the Glass Mountain and saw to his astonishment a great number of people gathered there .
21 He blew his silver whistle , and the swallow who acted as messenger in the golden XXXXX flew past .	castle		air|castle|clouds|door|flesh|knife|peel|treasures|trees|world

1 What are you doing up that tree ? '
2 But she answered nothing .
3 He asked her in all the languages he knew , but she remained as dumb as a fish .
4 Because she was so beautiful , however , the King 's heart was touched , and he was seized with a great love for her .
5 He wrapped her up in his cloak , placed her before him on his horse , and brought her to his castle .
6 There he had her dressed in rich clothes , and her beauty shone out as bright as day , but not a word could be drawn from her .
7 He set her at table by his side , and her modest ways and behaviour pleased him so much that he said , ' I will marry this maiden and none other in the world , ' and after some days he married her .
8 But the King had a wicked mother who was displeased with the marriage , and said wicked things of the young Queen .
9 ` Who knows who this girl is ? '
10 she said ; ` she can not speak , and is not worthy of a king . '
11 After a year , when the Queen had her first child , the old mother took it away from her .
12 Then she went to the King and said that the Queen had killed it .
13 The King would not believe it , and would not allow any harm to be done her .
14 But she sat quietly sewing at the shirts and troubling herself about nothing .
15 The next time she had a child the wicked mother did the same thing , but the King could not make up his mind to believe her .
16 He said , ` She is too sweet and good to do such a thing as that .
17 If she were not dumb and could defend herself , her innocence would be proved . '
18 But when the third child was taken away , and the Queen was again accused , and could not utter a word in her own defence , the King was obliged to give her over to the law , which decreed that she must be burnt to death .
19 When the day came on which the sentence was to be executed , it was the last day of the six years in which she must not speak or laugh , and now she had freed her dear brothers from the power of the enchantment .
20 The six shirts were done ; there was only the left sleeve wanting to the last .
21 When she was led to the stake , she laid the XXXXX on her arm , and as she stood on the pile and the fire was about to be lighted , she looked around her and saw six swans flying through the air .	shirts		child|cloak|maiden|mother|none|sentence|shirts|sleeve|things|time

1 At the same time she cautioned him with many angry words against speaking to a black girl he would most likely meet in the wood .
2 The Prince listened to her words meekly , and when she had finished took up the glass axe and set out for the forest .
3 At every step he seemed to sink into the clouds , but fear gave wings to his feet , and he crossed the lake in safety and set to work at once .
4 But no sooner had he struck the first blow with his axe than it broke into a thousand pieces against the tree .
5 The poor youth was so terrified he did not know what to do , for he was in mortal dread of the punishment the wicked old Fairy would inflict on him .
6 He wandered to and fro in the wood , not knowing where he was going , and at last , worn out by fatigue and misery , he sank on the ground and fell fast asleep .
7 He did not know how long he had slept when a sudden sound awoke him , and opening his eyes he saw a black girl standing beside him .
8 Mindful of the Fairy 's warning he did not dare to address her , but she on her part greeted him in the most friendly manner , and asked him at once if he were under the power of the wicked Fairy .
9 The Prince nodded his head silently in answer .
10 Then the black girl told him that she too was in the power of the Fairy , who had doomed her to wander about in her present guise until some youth should take pity on her and bear her in safety to the other side of the river which they saw in the distance , and on the other side of which the Fairy 's domain and power ended .
11 The girl 's words so inspired the Prince with confidence that he told her all his tale of woe , and ended up by asking her advice as to how he was to escape the punishment the Fairy would be sure to inflict on him when she discovered that he had not cut down the trees in the wood and that he had broken her axe .
12 ` You must know , ' answered the black girl , ` that the Fairy in whose power we both are is my own mother , but you must not betray this secret , for it would cost me my life .
13 If you will only promise to try and free me I will stand by you , and will accomplish for you all the tasks which my mother sets you . '
14 The Prince promised joyfully all she asked ; then having once more warned him not to betray her confidence , she handed him a draught to drink which very soon sunk his senses in a deep slumber .
15 His astonishment was great when he awoke to find the glass axe whole and unbroken at his side , and all the trees of the wood lying felled around him !
16 He made all haste across the bridge of clouds , and told the Fairy that her commands were obeyed .
17 She was much amazed when she heard that all the wood was cut down , and saw the axe unbroken in his hand , and since she could not believe that he had done all this by himself , she questioned him narrowly if he had seen or spoken to the black girl .
18 But the Prince lied manfully , and swore he had never looked up from his work for a moment .
19 Seeing she could get nothing more out of him , she gave him a little bread and water , and showing him to a small dark cupboard she told him he might sleep there .
20 Morning had hardly dawned when the Fairy awoke the Prince , and giving him the glass axe again she told him to cut up all the wood he had felled the day before , and to put it in bundles ready for firewood ; at the same time she warned him once more against approaching or speaking a word to the black girl if he met her in the wood .
21 Although his task was no easier than that of the day before , the XXXXX set out much more cheerfully , because he knew he could count an the help of the black girl .	youth		blow|clouds|hand|haste|senses|time|tree|water|work|youth

1 I know there 's a great deal of me to take care of , and I know that nobody knows how to cure me when I 'm sick .
2 All they can do is to stop my driver 's pay till I get well , and I ca n't trust my driver . ''
3 `` Ah ! ''
4 said the troop horse .
5 `` That explains it .
6 I can trust Dick . ''
7 `` You could put a whole regiment of Dicks on my back without making me feel any better .
8 I know just enough to be uncomfortable , and not enough to go on in spite of it . ''
9 `` We do not understand , '' said the bullocks .
10 `` I know you do n't .
11 I 'm not talking to you .
12 You do n't know what blood is . ''
13 `` We do , '' said the bullocks .
14 `` It is red stuff that soaks into the ground and smells . ''
15 The troop-horse gave a kick and a bound and a snort .
16 `` Do n't talk of it , '' he said .
17 `` I can smell it now , just thinking of it .
18 It makes me want to run -- when I have n't Dick on my back . ''
19 `` But it is not here , '' said the camel and the bullocks .
20 `` Why are you so stupid ? ''
21 `` It 's vile XXXXX , '' said Billy .	stuff		back|blood|camel|driver|ground|nobody|regiment|snort|spite|stuff

1 It is just as the old woman said ' ; and he took his gun on his shoulder , pulled the trigger , and shot into the midst of them , so that their feathers flew about .
2 Then the flock took flight with much screaming , but one fell dead , and the cloak fluttered down .
3 Then the Hunter did as the old woman had told him : he cut open the bird , found its heart , swallowed it , and took the cloak home with him .
4 The next morning when he awoke he remembered the promise , and wanted to see if it had come true .
5 But when he lifted up his pillow , there sparkled the gold piece , and the next morning he found another , and so on every time he got up .
6 He collected a heap of gold , but at last he thought to himself , ` What good is all my gold to me if I stay at home ?
7 I will travel and look a bit about me in the world . '
8 So he took leave of his parents , slung his hunting knapsack and his gun round him , and journeyed into the world .
9 It happened that one day he went through a thick wood , and when he came to the end of it there lay in the plain before him a large castle .
10 At one of the windows in it stood an old woman with a most beautiful maiden by her side , looking out .
11 But the old woman was a witch , and she said to the girl , ` There comes one out of the wood who has a wonderful treasure in his body which we must manage to possess ourselves of , darling daughter ; we have more right to it than he .
12 He has a bird 's heart in him , and so every morning there lies a gold piece under his pillow . '
13 She told her how they could get hold of it , and how she was to coax it from him , and at last threatened her angrily , saying , ` And if you do not obey me , you shall repent it ! '
14 When the Hunter came nearer he saw the maiden , and said to himself , ' I have travelled so far now that I will rest , and turn into this beautiful castle ; money I have in plenty . '
15 But the real reason was that he had caught sight of the lovely face .
16 He went into the house , and was kindly received and hospitably entertained .
17 It was not long before he was so much in love with the witch-maiden that he thought of nothing else , and only looked in her eyes , and whatever she wanted , that he gladly did .
18 Then the old witch said , ` Now we must have the bird-heart ; he will not feel when it is gone . '
19 She prepared a drink , and when it was ready she poured it in a goblet and gave it to the maiden , who had to hand it to the hunter .
20 ` Drink to me now , my dearest , ' she said .
21 Then he took the goblet , and when he had swallowed the XXXXX the bird-heart came out of his mouth .	drink		dearest|drink|maiden|parents|plenty|promise|shoulder|trigger|woman|world

1 Little Vixen , my fox terrier , went out through the other side ; and then there was a roaring and a grunting and bubbling , and I saw the tent cave in , as the pole snapped , and begin to dance about like a mad ghost .
2 A camel had blundered into it , and wet and angry as I was , I could not help laughing .
3 Then I ran on , because I did not know how many camels might have got loose , and before long I was out of sight of the camp , plowing my way through the mud .
4 At last I fell over the tail-end of a gun , and by that knew I was somewhere near the artillery lines where the cannon were stacked at night .
5 As I did not want to plowter about any more in the drizzle and the dark , I put my waterproof over the muzzle of one gun , and made a sort of wigwam with two or three rammers that I found , and lay along the tail of another gun , wondering where Vixen had got to , and where I might be .
6 Just as I was getting ready to go to sleep I heard a jingle of harness and a grunt , and a mule passed me shaking his wet ears .
7 He belonged to a screw-gun battery , for I could hear the rattle of the straps and rings and chains and things on his saddle pad .
8 The screw-guns are tiny little cannon made in two pieces , that are screwed together when the time comes to use them .
9 They are taken up mountains , anywhere that a mule can find a road , and they are very useful for fighting in rocky country .
10 Behind the mule there was a camel , with his big soft feet squelching and slipping in the mud , and his neck bobbing to and fro like a strayed hen 's .
11 Luckily , I knew enough of beast language -- not wild-beast language , but camp-beast language , of course -- from the natives to know what he was saying .
12 He must have been the one that flopped into my tent , for he called to the mule , `` What shall I do ?
13 Where shall I go ?
14 I have fought with a white thing that waved , and it took a stick and hit me on the neck . ''
15 -LRB- That was my broken tent pole , and I was very glad to know it . -RRB-
16 `` Shall we run on ? ''
17 `` Oh , it was you , '' said the mule , `` you and your friends , that have been disturbing the camp ?
18 All right .
19 You 'll be beaten for this in the morning .
20 But I may as well give you something on account now . ''
21 I heard the XXXXX jingle as the mule backed and caught the camel two kicks in the ribs that rang like a drum .	harness		battery|harness|hen|neck|pieces|rings|sort|tent|things|waterproof

1 Just stay here till I come again and tell you that it is finished . '
2 Having said this she flew merrily away , and Ferko , reassured by her words , lay down on the grass and slept peacefully till the next morning .
3 Early on the following day the whole town was on its feet , and everyone wondered how and where the stranger would build the wonderful palace .
4 The Princess alone was silent and sorrowful , and had cried all night till her pillow was wet , so much did she take the fate of the beautiful youth to heart .
5 Ferko spent the whole day in the meadows waiting the return of the bee .
6 And when evening was come the queen bee flew by , and perching on his shoulder she said , ` The wonderful palace is ready .
7 Be of good cheer , and lead the King to the hill just outside the city walls . '
8 And humming gaily she flew away again .
9 Ferko went at once to the King and told him the palace was finished .
10 The whole court went out to see the wonder , and their astonishment was great at the sight which met their eyes .
11 A splendid palace reared itself on the hill just outside the walls of the city , made of the most exquisite flowers that ever grew in mortal garden .
12 The roof was all of crimson roses , the windows of lilies , the walls of white carnations , the floors of glowing auriculas and violets , the doors of gorgeous tulips and narcissi with sunflowers for knockers , and all round hyacinths and other sweet-smelling flowers bloomed in masses , so that the air was perfumed far and near and enchanted all who were present .
13 This splendid palace had been built by the grateful queen bee , who had summoned all the other bees in the kingdom to help her .
14 The King 's amazement knew no bounds , and the Princess 's eyes beamed with delight as she turned them from the wonderful building on the delighted Ferko .
15 But the two brothers had grown quite green with envy , and only declared the more that Ferko was nothing but a wicked magician .
16 The King , although he had been surprised and astonished at the way his commands had been carried out , was very vexed that the stranger should escape with his life , and turning to the two brothers he said , ` He has certainly accomplished the first task , with the aid no doubt of his diabolical magic ; but what shall we give him to do now ?
17 Let us make it as difficult as possible , and if he fails he shall die . '
18 Then the eldest brother replied , ` The corn has all been cut , but it has not yet been put into barns ; let the knave collect all the grain in the kingdom into one big heap before to-morrow night , and if as much as a stalk of corn is left let him be put to death .
19 The Princess grew white with terror when she heard these words ; but Ferko felt much more cheerful than he had done the first time , and wandered out into the meadows again , wondering how he was to get out of the difficulty .
20 But he could think of no way of escape .
21 The sun sank to rest and night came on , when a little mouse started out of the XXXXX at Ferko 's feet , and said to him , ` I 'm delighted to see you , my kind benefactor ; but why are you looking so sad ?	grass		barns|city|commands|corn|death|difficulty|everyone|grass|magic|pillow

1 ` Would you tell me , ' said Alice , a little timidly , ` why you are painting those roses ? '
2 Five and Seven said nothing , but looked at Two .
3 Two began in a low voice , ` Why the fact is , you see , Miss , this here ought to have been a RED rose-tree , and we put a white one in by mistake ; and if the Queen was to find it out , we should all have our heads cut off , you know .
4 So you see , Miss , we 're doing our best , afore she comes , to -- ' At this moment Five , who had been anxiously looking across the garden , called out ` The Queen !
5 The Queen ! '
6 and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces .
7 There was a sound of many footsteps , and Alice looked round , eager to see the Queen .
8 First came ten soldiers carrying clubs ; these were all shaped like the three gardeners , oblong and flat , with their hands and feet at the corners : next the ten courtiers ; these were ornamented all over with diamonds , and walked two and two , as the soldiers did .
9 After these came the royal children ; there were ten of them , and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand , in couples : they were all ornamented with hearts .
10 Next came the guests , mostly Kings and Queens , and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit : it was talking in a hurried nervous manner , smiling at everything that was said , and went by without noticing her .
11 Then followed the Knave of Hearts , carrying the King 's crown on a crimson velvet cushion ; and , last of all this grand procession , came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS .
12 Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face like the three gardeners , but she could not remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions ; ` and besides , what would be the use of a procession , ' thought she , ` if people had all to lie down upon their faces , so that they could n't see it ? '
13 So she stood still where she was , and waited .
14 When the procession came opposite to Alice , they all stopped and looked at her , and the Queen said severely ` Who is this ? '
15 She said it to the Knave of Hearts , who only bowed and smiled in reply .
16 ` Idiot ! '
17 said the Queen , tossing her head impatiently ; and , turning to Alice , she went on , ` What 's your name , child ? '
18 ` My name is Alice , so please your Majesty , ' said Alice very politely ; but she added , to herself , ` Why , they 're only a pack of cards , after all .
19 I need n't be afraid of them ! '
20 ` And who are THESE ? '
21 said the Queen , pointing to the three XXXXX who were lying round the rosetree ; for , you see , as they were lying on their faces , and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack , she could not tell whether they were gardeners , or soldiers , or courtiers , or three of her own children .	gardeners		Majesty|children|garden|gardeners|guests|head|name|people|reply|roses

1 The train reached Belltown about noon .
2 He did not mean to stop long there -- it was too near Upton .
3 From the conductor on the train , he found that a boat left Belltown for Montrose at two in the afternoon .
4 Montrose was a hundred miles from Upton , and Chester thought he would be safe there .
5 To Montrose , accordingly , he decided to go , but the first thing was to get some dinner .
6 He went into a grocery store and bought some crackers and a bit of cheese .
7 He had somewhere picked up the idea that crackers and cheese were about as economical food as you could find for adventurous youths starting out on small capital .
8 He found his way to the only public square Belltown boasted , and munched his food hungrily on a bench under the trees .
9 He would go to Montrose and there find something to do .
10 Later on he would gradually work his way out West , where there was more room for an ambitious small boy to expand and grow .
11 Chester dreamed some dazzling dreams as he sat there on the bench under the Belltown chestnuts .
12 Passers-by , if they noticed him at all , saw merely a rather small , poorly clad boy , with a great many freckles , a square jaw and shrewd , level-gazing grey eyes .
13 But this same lad was mapping out a very brilliant future for himself as people passed him heedlessly by .
14 He would get out West , somehow or other , some time or other , and make a fortune .
15 Then , perhaps , he would go back to Upton for a visit and shine in his splendour before all his old neighbours .
16 It all seemed very easy and alluring , sitting there in the quiet little Belltown square .
17 Chester , you see , possessed imagination .
18 That , together with the crackers and cheese , so cheered him up that he felt ready for anything .
19 He was aroused from a dream of passing Aunt Harriet by in lofty scorn and a glittering carriage , by the shrill whistle of the boat .
20 Chester pocketed his remaining crackers and cheese and his visions also , and was once more his alert , wide-awake self .
21 He had inquired the XXXXX to the wharf from the grocer , so he found no difficulty in reaching it .	way		alert|boat|boy|conductor|crackers|jaw|people|something|visions|way

1 He supposed they would have to let the women have their own way .
2 The next Sunday evening after service Mr. Sinclair arose hesitatingly .
3 His face was flushed , and Alethea Craig always declared that he looked `` just plain everyday cross . ''
4 He announced briefly that the session after due deliberation had concluded that Mrs. Cotterell might occupy the pulpit on the evening appointed for her address .
5 The women all over the church smiled broadly .
6 Frances Spenslow got up and went to the organ stool .
7 The singing in the last hymn was good and hearty .
8 Going down the steps after dismissal Mrs. Elder Knox caught the secretary of the Church Aid by the arm .
9 `` I guess , '' she whispered anxiously , `` you 'd better call a special meeting of the Aids at my house tomorrow afternoon .
10 If we 're to get that social over before haying begins we 've got to do some smart scurrying . ''
11 The strike in the Putney church was over .
12 The Unhappiness of Miss Farquhar Frances Farquhar was a beauty and was sometimes called a society butterfly by people who did n't know very much about it .
13 Her father was wealthy and her mother came of an extremely blue-blooded family .
14 Frances had been out for three years , and was a social favourite .
15 Consequently , it may be wondered why she was unhappy .
16 In plain English , Frances Farquhar had been jilted -- just a commonplace , everyday jilting !
17 She had been engaged to Paul Holcomb ; he was a very handsome fellow , somewhat too evidently aware of the fact , and Frances was very deeply in love with him -- or thought herself so , which at the time comes to pretty much the same thing .
18 Everybody in her set knew of her engagement , and all her girl friends envied her , for Holcomb was a matrimonial catch .
19 Then the crash came .
20 Nobody outside the family knew exactly what did happen , but everybody knew that the Holcomb-Farquhar match was off , and everybody had a different story to account for it .
21 The simple truth was that Holcomb was fickle and had fallen in XXXXX with another girl .	love		Mrs.|briefly|commonplace|cross|deliberation|engagement|fact|love|singing|story

1 she demanded .
2 `` The hands you 've got will fill the kitchen chamber .
3 There 's only the spare room left .
4 You 'll hardly put him there , I suppose ?
5 Your philanthropy will hardly lead you as far as that . ''
6 When Clemantiny employed big words and sarcasm at the same time , the effect was tremendous .
7 But Miss Salome did n't wilt .
8 `` What makes you so prejudiced against him ? ''
9 she asked curiously .
10 `` I 'm not prejudiced against him .
11 But that story about himself did n't ring true .
12 I worked in Upton years ago , and there were n't any Bensons there then .
13 There 's more behind that he has n't told .
14 I 'd find out what it was before I took him into my house , that 's all .
15 But I 'm not prejudiced . ''
16 `` Well , well , '' said Miss Salome soothingly , `` we must do the best we can for him .
17 It 's a sort of duty .
18 And as for a room for him -- why , I 'll put him in Johnny 's . ''
19 Clemantiny opened her mouth and shut it again .
20 She understood that it would be a waste of breath to say anything more .
21 If XXXXX Salome had made up her mind to put this freckled , determined-looking waif , dropped on her doorstep from heaven knew where , into Johnny 's room , that was an end of the matter .	Miss		Miss|effect|hands|house|mouth|ring|room|story|time|years

1 His first act was to seek the Fairy under whose protection he had been placed , and he implored her to give him all the assistance of her art and counsel in this important matter .
2 After listening attentively to the whole adventure , the Fairy asked for time to consult her books .
3 After due consideration she informed the Prince that the object of his search was not far distant , but that it was too difficult for him to attempt to enter the enchanted palace where she was , as the King his father had surrounded it with a thick cloud , and that the only expedient she could think of would be to gain possession of the Princess 's parrot .
4 This , she added , did not appear impossible , as it often flew about to some distance in the neighbourhood .
5 Having told the Prince all this , the Fairy went out in hopes of seeing the parrot , and soon returned with the bird in her hand .
6 She promptly shut it up in a cage , and , touching the Prince with her wand , transformed him into an exactly similar parrot ; after which , she instructed him how to reach the Princess .
7 The Prince reached the palace in safety , but was so dazzled at first by the Princess 's beauty , which far surpassed his expectations , that he was quite dumb for a time .
8 The Princess was surprised and anxious , and fearing the parrot , who was her greatest comfort , had fallen ill , she took him in her hand and caressed him .
9 This soon reassured the Prince , and encouraged him to play his part well , and he began to say a thousand agreeable things which charmed the Princess .
10 Presently the King appeared , and the parrot noticed with joy how much he was disliked .
11 As soon as the King left , the Princess retired to her dressing-room , the parrot flew after her and overheard her lamentations at the continued persecutions of the King , who had pressed her to consent to their marriage .
12 The parrot said so many clever and tender things to comfort her that she began to doubt whether this could indeed be her own parrot .
13 When he saw her well-disposed towards him , he exclaimed : ` Madam , I have a most important secret to confide to you , and I beg you not to be alarmed by what I am about to say .
14 I am here on behalf of the Queen your mother , with the object of delivering your Highness ; to prove which , behold this portrait which she gave me herself . '
15 So saying he drew forth the miniature from under his wing .
16 The Princess 's surprise was great , but after what she had seen and heard it was impossible not to indulge in hope , for she had recognised the likeness of herself which her mother always wore .
17 The parrot , finding she was not much alarmed , told her who he was , all that her mother had promised him and the help he had already received from a Fairy who had assured him that she would give him means to transport the Princess to her mother 's arms .
18 When he found her listening attentively to him , he implored the Princess to allow him to resume his natural shape .
19 She did not speak , so he drew a feather from his wing , and she beheld before her a Prince of such surpassing beauty that it was impossible not to hope that she might owe her liberty to so charming a person .
20 Meantime the Fairy had prepared a chariot , to which she harnessed two powerful eagles ; then placing the cage , with the parrot in it , she charged the bird to conduct it to the window of the Princess 's dressing-room .
21 This was done in a few minutes , and the Princess , stepping into the chariot with the Prince , was delighted to find her XXXXX again .	parrot		Fairy|adventure|counsel|father|lamentations|marriage|matter|mother|parrot|wing

1 But she shook her head silently .
2 As they pressed her further with questions , she threw them the golden chain from her neck .
3 But they did not leave off , and she threw them her girdle , and when this was no use , her garters , and then her dress .
4 The huntsmen would not leave her alone , but climbed the tree , lifted the maiden down , and led her to the King .
5 The King asked , ` Who are you ?
6 What are you doing up that tree ? '
7 But she answered nothing .
8 He asked her in all the languages he knew , but she remained as dumb as a fish .
9 Because she was so beautiful , however , the King 's heart was touched , and he was seized with a great love for her .
10 He wrapped her up in his cloak , placed her before him on his horse , and brought her to his castle .
11 There he had her dressed in rich clothes , and her beauty shone out as bright as day , but not a word could be drawn from her .
12 He set her at table by his side , and her modest ways and behaviour pleased him so much that he said , ' I will marry this maiden and none other in the world , ' and after some days he married her .
13 But the King had a wicked mother who was displeased with the marriage , and said wicked things of the young Queen .
14 ` Who knows who this girl is ? '
15 she said ; ` she can not speak , and is not worthy of a king . '
16 After a year , when the Queen had her first child , the old mother took it away from her .
17 Then she went to the King and said that the Queen had killed it .
18 The King would not believe it , and would not allow any harm to be done her .
19 But she sat quietly sewing at the shirts and troubling herself about nothing .
20 The next time she had a child the wicked mother did the same thing , but the King could not make up his mind to believe her .
21 He said , ` She is too sweet and good to do such a XXXXX as that .	thing		behaviour|girdle|harm|languages|love|neck|none|thing|things|ways

1 `` Ye can hear Shere Khan below in the thickets .
2 I might have saved myself the message . ''
3 Father Wolf listened , and below in the valley that ran down to a little river he heard the dry , angry , snarly , singsong whine of a tiger who has caught nothing and does not care if all the jungle knows it .
4 `` The fool ! ''
5 said Father Wolf .
6 `` To begin a night 's work with that noise !
7 Does he think that our buck are like his fat Waingunga bullocks ? ''
8 `` H'sh .
9 It is neither bullock nor buck he hunts to-night , '' said Mother Wolf .
10 `` It is Man . ''
11 The whine had changed to a sort of humming purr that seemed to come from every quarter of the compass .
12 It was the noise that bewilders woodcutters and gypsies sleeping in the open , and makes them run sometimes into the very mouth of the tiger .
13 `` Man ! ''
14 said Father Wolf , showing all his white teeth .
15 `` Faugh !
16 Are there not enough beetles and frogs in the tanks that he must eat Man , and on our ground too ! ''
17 The Law of the Jungle , which never orders anything without a reason , forbids every beast to eat Man except when he is killing to show his children how to kill , and then he must hunt outside the hunting grounds of his pack or tribe .
18 The real reason for this is that man-killing means , sooner or later , the arrival of white men on elephants , with guns , and hundreds of brown men with gongs and rockets and torches .
19 Then everybody in the jungle suffers .
20 The reason the beasts give among themselves is that Man is the weakest and most defenseless of all living things , and it is unsportsmanlike to touch him .
21 They say too -- and it is true -- that man-eaters become mangy , and lose their XXXXX .	teeth		arrival|beasts|beetles|compass|everybody|fool|gypsies|message|nothing|teeth

1 replied Old Mr. Toad indignantly .
2 `` If it was fastened at the other end , how could I run it out so far ? ''
3 `` But mine and all other tongues that I ever have seen are fastened way down in the throat , '' protested Peter .
4 `` Yours is fastened at the other end , way in the very front of your mouth .
5 I never heard of such a thing . ''
6 `` There are a great many things you have never heard of , Peter Rabbit , '' replied Old Mr. Toad drily .
7 `` Mine is the right way to have a tongue .
8 Because it is fastened way up in the front of my mouth that way , I can use the whole of it .
9 You see it goes out its full length .
10 Then , when I draw it in with a bug on the end of it , I just turn it over so that the end that was out goes way back in my throat and takes the bug with it to just the right place to swallow . ''
11 Peter thought this over for a few minutes before he ventured another question .
12 `` I begin to understand , '' said he , `` but how do you hold on to the bug with your tongue ? ''
13 `` My tongue is sticky , of course , Mr. Stupid , '' replied Old Mr. Toad , looking very much disgusted .
14 `` Just let me touch a bug with it , and he 's mine every time . ''
15 Peter thought this over .
16 Then he felt of his own tongue .
17 `` Mine is n't sticky , '' said he very innocently .
18 Old Mr. Toad laughed right out .
19 `` Perhaps if it was , you could n't ask so many questions , '' said he .
20 `` Now watch me catch that fly . ''
21 His funny little tongue darted out , and the XXXXX was gone .	fly		Mine|course|fly|length|questions|things|throat|time|tongues|whole

1 One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field .
2 The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
3 Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid .
4 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
5 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves .
6 When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew very anxious , and when his game bag was found close to the mill-pond she guessed at once what had befallen him .
7 She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing .
8 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
9 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
10 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
11 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
12 The hunter 's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .
13 Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon , but it passed at last , and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond , combed her black hair with a golden comb , and when she had finished , placed the comb on the bank ; then she watched the water impatiently .
14 Soon she heard a rushing sound , and a big wave rose suddenly and swept the comb off the bank , and a minute after the head of her husband rose from the pond and gazed sadly at her .
15 But immediately another wave came , and the head sank back into the water without having said a word .
16 The pond lay still and motionless , glittering in the moonshine , and the hunter 's wife was not a bit better off than she had been before .
17 In despair she wandered about for days and nights , and at last , worn out by fatigue , she sank once more into a deep sleep , and dreamt exactly the same dream about the old witch .
18 So next morning she went again to the flowery meadow and sought the witch in her hut , and told her of her grief .
19 The old woman counselled her to go to the mill-pond the next full moon and play upon a golden flute , and then to lay the flute on the bank .
20 As soon as the next moon was full the hunter 's wife went to the mill-pond , played on a golden flute , and when she had finished placed it on the bank .
21 Then a rushing sound was heard , and a wave swept the flute off the bank , and soon the head of the hunter appeared and rose up higher and higher till he was half out of the XXXXX .	water		feet|hands|home|hunter|hunting|sound|water|wave|waves|witch

1 She went up to him and said , ' I pronounce this spell , that you become a beautiful prince , and that Hadvor shall be unable to say anything against the charges that I shall bring against her . '
2 The body of the dead Giant now became that of a beautiful prince , and the Queen went in again . '
3 I do n't think , ' said she to the King , ` that your daughter is as good as she is said to be .
4 My brother came and asked her hand , and she has had him put to death .
5 I have just found his dead body lying at the Palace gate . '
6 The King went along with the Queen to see the body , and thought it all very strange ; so beautiful a youth , he said , would have been a worthy match for Hadvor , and he would readily have agreed to their marriage .
7 The Queen asked leave to decide what Hadvor 's punishment should be , which the King was very willing to allow , so as to escape from punishing his own daughter .
8 The Queen 's decision was that the King should make a big grave-mound for her brother , and put Hadvor into it beside him .
9 Olof knew all the plans of the Queen , and went to tell the Princess what had been done , whereupon Hadvor earnestly entreated her to tell her what to do .
10 ` First and foremost , ' said Olof , ` you must get a wide cloak to wear over your other clothes , when you are put into the mound .
11 The Giant 's ghost will walk after you are both left together in there , and he will have two dogs along with him .
12 He will ask you to cut pieces out of his legs to give to the dogs , but that you must not promise to do unless he tells you where Hermod has gone to , and tells you how to find him .
13 He will then let you stand on his shoulders , so as to get out of the mound ; but he means to cheat you all the same , and will catch you by the cloak to pull you back again ; but you must take care to have the cloak loose on your shoulders , so that he will only get hold of that . '
14 The mound was all ready now , and the Giant laid in it , and into it Hadvor also had to go without being allowed to make any defence .
15 After they were both left there everything happened just as Olof had said .
16 The prince became a Giant again , and asked Hadvor to cut the pieces out of his legs for the dogs ; but she refused until he told her that Hermod was in a desert island , which she could not reach unless she took the skin off the soles of his feet and made shoes out of that ; with these shoes she could travel both on land and sea .
17 This Hadvor now did , and the Giant then let her get up on his shoulders to get out of the mound .
18 As she sprang out he caught hold of her cloak ; but she had taken care to let it lie loose on her shoulders , and so escaped .
19 She now made her way down to the sea , to where she knew there was the shortest distance over to the island in which Hermod was .
20 This strait she easily crossed , for the shoes kept her up .
21 On reaching the island she found a sandy beach all along by the XXXXX , and high cliffs above .	sea		anything|care|cloak|clothes|leave|pieces|plans|sea|shoes|spell

1 But as there were forty or fifty thousand other seals hunting for the same thing each spring , the whistling , bellowing , roaring , and blowing on the beach was something frightful .
2 From a little hill called Hutchinson 's Hill , you could look over three and a half miles of ground covered with fighting seals ; and the surf was dotted all over with the heads of seals hurrying to land and begin their share of the fighting .
3 They fought in the breakers , they fought in the sand , and they fought on the smooth-worn basalt rocks of the nurseries , for they were just as stupid and unaccommodating as men .
4 Their wives never came to the island until late in May or early in June , for they did not care to be torn to pieces ; and the young two - , three - , and four-year-old seals who had not begun housekeeping went inland about half a mile through the ranks of the fighters and played about on the sand dunes in droves and legions , and rubbed off every single green thing that grew .
5 They were called the holluschickie -- the bachelors -- and there were perhaps two or three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah alone .
6 Sea Catch had just finished his forty-fifth fight one spring when Matkah , his soft , sleek , gentle-eyed wife , came up out of the sea , and he caught her by the scruff of the neck and dumped her down on his reservation , saying gruffly : `` Late as usual .
7 Where have you been ? ''
8 It was not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during the four months he stayed on the beaches , and so his temper was generally bad .
9 Matkah knew better than to answer back .
10 She looked round and cooed : `` How thoughtful of you .
11 You 've taken the old place again . ''
12 `` I should think I had , '' said Sea Catch .
13 `` Look at me ! ''
14 He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places ; one eye was almost out , and his sides were torn to ribbons .
15 `` Oh , you men , you men ! ''
16 Matkah said , fanning herself with her hind flipper .
17 `` Why ca n't you be sensible and settle your places quietly ?
18 You look as though you had been fighting with the Killer Whale . ''
19 `` I have n't been doing anything but fight since the middle of May .
20 The beach is disgracefully crowded this season .
21 I 've met at least a hundred XXXXX from Lukannon Beach , house hunting .	seals		Killer|May|breakers|eye|hill|island|pieces|rocks|seals|wives

1 Akela !
2 Let the Lone Wolf show his strength .
3 Room for the leader of the Pack !
4 Spring , Akela ! ''
5 The Lone Wolf must have sprung and missed his hold , for Mowgli heard the snap of his teeth and then a yelp as the Sambhur knocked him over with his forefoot .
6 He did not wait for anything more , but dashed on ; and the yells grew fainter behind him as he ran into the croplands where the villagers lived .
7 `` Bagheera spoke truth , '' he panted , as he nestled down in some cattle fodder by the window of a hut .
8 `` To-morrow is one day both for Akela and for me . ''
9 Then he pressed his face close to the window and watched the fire on the hearth .
10 He saw the husbandman 's wife get up and feed it in the night with black lumps .
11 And when the morning came and the mists were all white and cold , he saw the man 's child pick up a wicker pot plastered inside with earth , fill it with lumps of red-hot charcoal , put it under his blanket , and go out to tend the cows in the byre .
12 `` Is that all ? ''
13 said Mowgli .
14 `` If a cub can do it , there is nothing to fear . ''
15 So he strode round the corner and met the boy , took the pot from his hand , and disappeared into the mist while the boy howled with fear .
16 `` They are very like me , '' said Mowgli , blowing into the pot as he had seen the woman do .
17 `` This thing will die if I do not give it things to eat '' ; and he dropped twigs and dried bark on the red stuff .
18 Halfway up the hill he met Bagheera with the morning dew shining like moonstones on his coat .
19 `` Akela has missed , '' said the Panther .
20 `` They would have killed him last night , but they needed thee also .
21 They were looking for thee on the XXXXX . ''	hill		child|hand|hill|man|mists|pot|snap|strength|twigs|villagers

1 They had sailed for several days , when the breeze suddenly fell , and there came a dead calm , at a time when they needed only one day 's voyage to reach home .
2 Sigurd and his Queen were one day on deck , when most of the others on the ship had fallen asleep .
3 There they sat and talked for a while , and had their little son along with them .
4 After a time Sigurd became so heavy with sleep that he could no longer keep awake , so he went below and lay down , leaving the Queen alone on the deck , playing with her son .
5 A good while after Sigurd had gone below the Queen saw something black on the sea , which seemed to be coming nearer .
6 As it approached she could make out that it was a boat , and could see the figure of some one sitting in it and rowing it .
7 At last the boat came alongside the ship , and now the Queen saw that it was a stone boat , out of which there came up on board the ship a fearfully ugly Witch .
8 The Queen was more frightened than words can describe , and could neither speak a word nor move from the place so as to awaken the King or the sailors .
9 The Witch came right up to the Queen , took the child from her and laid it on the deck ; then she took the Queen , and stripped her of all her fine clothes , which she proceeded to put on herself , and looked then like a human being .
10 Last of all she took the Queen , put her into the boat , and said -- ` This spell I lay upon you , that you slacken not your course until you come to my brother in the Underworld . '
11 The Queen sat stunned and motionless , but the boat at once shot away from the ship with her , and before long she was out of sight .
12 When the boat could no longer be seen the child began to cry , and though the Witch tried to quiet it she could not manage it ; so she went below to where the King was sleeping with the child on her arm , and awakened him , scolding him for leaving them alone on deck , while he and all the crew were asleep .
13 It was great carelessness of him , she said , to leave no one to watch the ship with her .
14 Sigurd was greatly surprised to hear his Queen scold him so much , for she had never said an angry word to him before ; but he thought it was quite excusable in this case , and tried to quiet the child along with her , but it was no use .
15 Then he went and wakened the sailors , and bade them hoist the sails , for a breeze had sprung up and was blowing straight towards the harbour .
16 They soon reached the land which Sigurd was to rule over , and found all the people sorrowful for the old King 's death , but they became glad when they got Sigurd back to the Court , and made him King over them .
17 The King 's son , however , hardly ever stopped crying from the time he had been taken from his mother on the deck of the ship , although he had always been such a good child before , so that at last the King had to get a nurse for him -- one of the maids of the Court .
18 As soon as the child got into her charge he stopped crying , and behaved well as before .
19 After the sea-voyage it seemed to the King that the Queen had altered very much in many ways , and not for the better .
20 He thought her much more haughty and stubborn and difficult to deal with than she used to be .
21 Before long XXXXX began to notice this as well as the King .	others		arm|breeze|carelessness|deck|maids|mother|others|sails|word|words

1 said the Caterpillar .
2 ` Well , I 've tried to say `` HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE , '' but it all came different ! '
3 Alice replied in a very melancholy voice .
4 ` Repeat , `` YOU ARE OLD , FATHER WILLIAM , '' ' said the Caterpillar .
5 Alice folded her hands , and began : -- ` You are old , Father William , ' the young man said , ` And your hair has become very white ; And yet you incessantly stand on your head -- Do you think , at your age , it is right ? '
6 ` In my youth , ' Father William replied to his son , ' I feared it might injure the brain ; But , now that I 'm perfectly sure I have none , Why , I do it again and again . '
7 ` You are old , ' said the youth , ` as I mentioned before , And have grown most uncommonly fat ; Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door -- Pray , what is the reason of that ? '
8 ` In my youth , ' said the sage , as he shook his grey locks , ' I kept all my limbs very supple By the use of this ointment -- one shilling the box -- Allow me to sell you a couple ? '
9 ` You are old , ' said the youth , ` and your jaws are too weak For anything tougher than suet ; Yet you finished the goose , with the bones and the beak -- Pray how did you manage to do it ? '
10 ` In my youth , ' said his father , ' I took to the law , And argued each case with my wife ; And the muscular strength , which it gave to my jaw , Has lasted the rest of my life . '
11 ` You are old , ' said the youth , ` one would hardly suppose That your eye was as steady as ever ; Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose -- What made you so awfully clever ? ' '
12 I have answered three questions , and that is enough , ' Said his father ; ` do n't give yourself airs !
13 Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff ?
14 Be off , or I 'll kick you down stairs ! '
15 ` That is not said right , ' said the Caterpillar .
16 ` Not QUITE right , I 'm afraid , ' said Alice , timidly ; ` some of the words have got altered . '
17 ` It is wrong from beginning to end , ' said the Caterpillar decidedly , and there was silence for some minutes .
18 The Caterpillar was the first to speak .
19 ` What size do you want to be ? '
20 it asked .
21 ` Oh , I 'm not particular as to XXXXX , ' Alice hastily replied ; ` only one does n't like changing so often , you know . ' '	size		BEE|eel|end|father|head|ointment|rest|size|use|voice

1 Mowgli 's Brothers Now Rann the Kite brings home the night That Mang the Bat sets free -- The herds are shut in byre and hut For loosed till dawn are we .
2 This is the hour of pride and power , Talon and tush and claw .
3 Oh , hear the call !
4 -- Good hunting all That keep the Jungle Law !
5 Night-Song in the Jungle It was seven o'clock of a very warm evening in the Seeonee hills when Father Wolf woke up from his day 's rest , scratched himself , yawned , and spread out his paws one after the other to get rid of the sleepy feeling in their tips .
6 Mother Wolf lay with her big gray nose dropped across her four tumbling , squealing cubs , and the moon shone into the mouth of the cave where they all lived .
7 `` Augrh ! ''
8 said Father Wolf .
9 `` It is time to hunt again . ''
10 He was going to spring down hill when a little shadow with a bushy tail crossed the threshold and whined : `` Good luck go with you , O Chief of the Wolves .
11 And good luck and strong white teeth go with noble children that they may never forget the hungry in this world . ''
12 It was the jackal -- Tabaqui , the Dish-licker -- and the wolves of India despise Tabaqui because he runs about making mischief , and telling tales , and eating rags and pieces of leather from the village rubbish-heaps .
13 But they are afraid of him too , because Tabaqui , more than anyone else in the jungle , is apt to go mad , and then he forgets that he was ever afraid of anyone , and runs through the forest biting everything in his way .
14 Even the tiger runs and hides when little Tabaqui goes mad , for madness is the most disgraceful thing that can overtake a wild creature .
15 We call it hydrophobia , but they call it dewanee -- the madness -- and run .
16 `` Enter , then , and look , '' said Father Wolf stiffly , `` but there is no food here . ''
17 `` For a wolf , no , '' said Tabaqui , `` but for so mean a person as myself a dry bone is a good feast .
18 Who are we , the Gidur-log -LSB- the jackal people -RSB- , to pick and choose ? ''
19 He scuttled to the back of the cave , where he found the bone of a buck with some meat on it , and sat cracking the end merrily .
20 `` All thanks for this good meal , '' he said , licking his lips .
21 `` How beautiful are the noble XXXXX !	children		Brothers|buck|children|hunting|moon|rags|tail|tips|wolf|wolves

1 Then he jumped straight at Jimmy Skunk with his mouth wide open , but he took great care not to jump quite far enough to reach Jimmy .
2 You see , he was just trying to scare Jimmy .
3 But Jimmy did n't scare .
4 He knows all about Mr. Blacksnake and that really he is a coward .
5 So he suddenly gritted his teeth in a way not at all pleasant to hear and started for Mr. Blacksnake .
6 Mr. Blacksnake did n't wait .
7 No , Sir , he did n't wait .
8 He suddenly turned and glided back up the Crooked Little Path , hissing angrily .
9 Jimmy followed him a little way , and then he went back to Old Mr. Toad .
10 `` Oh , '' panted Mr. Toad , `` you came just in time !
11 I could n't have hopped another hop . ''
12 `` I guess I did , '' replied Jimmy .
13 `` Now you get your breath and come along with me . ''
14 And Old Mr. Toad did .
15 XIX OLD MR. TOAD GETS HIS STOMACH FULL Pray do not tip your nose in scorn At things which others eat , For things to you not good at all To others are most sweet .
16 There are ants , for instance .
17 You would n't want to eat them even if you were dreadfully hungry .
18 But Old Mr. Toad and Buster Bear think there is nothing much nicer .
19 Now Buster Bear had found Old Mr. Toad catching ants , one at a time , as he kept watch beside their home , and it had pleased Buster to find some one else who liked ants .
20 Right away he invited Old Mr. Toad to dine with him .
21 But poor Old Mr. Toad was frightened almost to death when he heard the deep , grumbly-rumbly voice of Buster Bear , for he had been so busy watching the XXXXX that he had n't seen Buster coming .	ants		Mr.|Sir|ants|breath|care|coward|instance|scare|teeth|time

1 `` What a shame I was n't there !
2 They 'd have gone mad over my dress . ''
3 But the next item of information crushed her .
4 The Creature had arrived .
5 He had called that afternoon , and was coming to dinner that night .
6 `` How fortunate , '' said the Girl , as she went to her room , `` that I relieved my mind to that Young Man out in the park today .
7 If I had come back with all that pent-up feeling seething within me and heard this news right on top of it all , I might have flown into a thousand pieces .
8 What lovely brown eyes he had !
9 I do dote on brown eyes .
10 The Creature will be sure to have fishy blue ones . ''
11 * * * * * When the Girl went down to meet the Creature she found herself confronted by the Young Man .
12 For the first , last , and only time in her life , the Girl had not a word to say .
13 But her family thought her confusion very natural and pretty .
14 They really had not expected her to behave so well .
15 As for the Young Man , his manner was flawless .
16 Toward the end of the dinner , when the Girl was beginning to recover herself , he turned to her .
17 `` You know I promised never to tell , '' he said .
18 `` Be sure you do n't , then , '' said the Girl meekly .
19 `` But are n't you glad you left the loophole ? ''
20 he persisted .
21 The XXXXX smiled down into her lap .	Girl		Girl|confusion|dinner|dress|feeling|life|manner|ones|shame|time

1 `` Forty years and five , '' said Machua Appa , `` have I followed my lord , the elephant , but never have I heard that any child of man had seen what this child has seen .
2 By all the Gods of the Hills , it is -- what can we say ? ''
3 and he shook his head .
4 When they got back to camp it was time for the evening meal .
5 Petersen Sahib ate alone in his tent , but he gave orders that the camp should have two sheep and some fowls , as well as a double ration of flour and rice and salt , for he knew that there would be a feast .
6 Big Toomai had come up hotfoot from the camp in the plains to search for his son and his elephant , and now that he had found them he looked at them as though he were afraid of them both .
7 And there was a feast by the blazing campfires in front of the lines of picketed elephants , and Little Toomai was the hero of it all .
8 And the big brown elephant catchers , the trackers and drivers and ropers , and the men who know all the secrets of breaking the wildest elephants , passed him from one to the other , and they marked his forehead with blood from the breast of a newly killed jungle-cock , to show that he was a forester , initiated and free of all the jungles .
9 And at last , when the flames died down , and the red light of the logs made the elephants look as though they had been dipped in blood too , Machua Appa , the head of all the drivers of all the Keddahs -- Machua Appa , Petersen Sahib 's other self , who had never seen a made road in forty years : Machua Appa , who was so great that he had no other name than Machua Appa , -- leaped to his feet , with Little Toomai held high in the air above his head , and shouted : `` Listen , my brothers .
10 Listen , too , you my lords in the lines there , for I , Machua Appa , am speaking !
11 This little one shall no more be called Little Toomai , but Toomai of the Elephants , as his great-grandfather was called before him .
12 What never man has seen he has seen through the long night , and the favor of the elephant-folk and of the Gods of the Jungles is with him .
13 He shall become a great tracker .
14 He shall become greater than I , even I , Machua Appa !
15 He shall follow the new trail , and the stale trail , and the mixed trail , with a clear eye !
16 He shall take no harm in the Keddah when he runs under their bellies to rope the wild tuskers ; and if he slips before the feet of the charging bull elephant , the bull elephant shall know who he is and shall not crush him .
17 Aihai !
18 my lords in the chains , '' -- he whirled up the line of pickets -- `` here is the little one that has seen your dances in your hidden places , -- the sight that never man saw !
19 Give him honor , my lords !
20 Salaam karo , my children .
21 Make your salute to Toomai of the XXXXX !	Elephants		Elephants|chains|drivers|elephant|feast|feet|harm|light|lord|meal

1 She was rather alarmed , but the Prince reassured her , telling her it was the good Fairy to whom she owed so much , and who was now conducting her in safety to her mother .
2 That same morning the King woke suddenly from a troubled sleep .
3 He had dreamt that the Princess was being carried off from him , and , transforming himself into an eagle , he flew to the palace .
4 When he failed to find her he flew into a terrible rage , and hastened home to consult his books , by which means he discovered that it was his son who had deprived him of this precious treasure .
5 Immediately he took the shape of a harpy , and , filled with rage , was determined to devour his son , and even the Princess too , if only he could overtake them .
6 He set out at full speed ; but he started too late , and was further delayed by a strong wind which the Fairy raised behind the young couple so as to baffle any pursuit .
7 You may imagine the rapture with which the Queen received the daughter she had given up for lost , as well as the amiable Prince who had rescued her .
8 The Fairy entered with them , and warned the Queen that the Wizard King would shortly arrive , infuriated by his loss , and that nothing could preserve the Prince and Princess from his rage and magic unless they were actually married .
9 The Queen hastened to inform the King her husband , and the wedding took place on the spot .
10 As the ceremony was completed the Wizard King arrived .
11 His despair at being so late bewildered him so entirely that he appeared in his natural form and attempted to sprinkle some black liquid over the bride and bridegroom , which was intended to kill them , but the Fairy stretched out her wand and the liquid dropped on the Magician himself .
12 He fell down senseless , and the Princess 's father , deeply offended at the cruel revenge which had been attempted , ordered him to be removed and locked up in prison .
13 Now as magicians lose all their power as soon as they are in prison , the King felt himself much embarrassed at being thus at the mercy of those he had so greatly offended .
14 The Prince implored and obtained his father 's pardon , and the prison doors were opened .
15 No sooner was this done than the Wizard King was seen in the air under the form of some unknown bird , exclaiming as he flew off that he would never forgive either his son or the Fairy the cruel wrong they had done him .
16 Everyone entreated the Fairy to settle in the kingdom where she now was , to which she consented .
17 She built herself a magnificent palace , to which she transported her books and fairy secrets , and where she enjoyed the sight of the perfect happiness she had helped to bestow on the entire royal family .
18 THE NIXY -LRB- 15 -RRB- -LRB- 15 -RRB- From the German .
19 Kletke .
20 There was once upon a time a miller who was very well off , and had as much money and as many goods as he knew what to do with .
21 But sorrow comes in the night , and the XXXXX all of a sudden became so poor that at last he could hardly call the mill in which he sat his own .	miller		books|daughter|despair|mercy|miller|mother|pursuit|shape|wand|wind

1 `` I was quite close to him when I stopped abruptly .
2 Somehow I could n't move another step .
3 He made no motion , but his eyes looked straight into mine . ''
4 ` Do not let Dolly sail on the Aragon tomorrow , ' he said in slow , clear tones that I heard distinctly .
5 `` And then he was gone -- yes , Jack , I know it is a very conventional way of ending up a ghost story , | but I have to tell you just what occurred , or at least what I thought occurred .
6 One moment he was there and the next moment he was n't .
7 He did not pass me or go out of the door .
8 `` For a few moments I felt dazed .
9 I was wide awake and in my right and proper senses so far as I could judge , and yet the whole thing seemed incredible .
10 Scared ?
11 No , I was n't conscious of being scared .
12 I was simply bewildered .
13 `` In my mental confusion one thought stood out sharply -- Dolly was in danger of some kind , and if the warning was really from a supernatural source , it must not be disregarded .
14 I rushed to the station and , having first wired to my wife not to sail on the Aragon , I found that I could connect with the five-fifteen train for New York .
15 I took it with the comfortable consciousness that my friends would certainly think I had gone out of my mind .
16 `` I arrived in New York at eight o'clock the next morning and at once drove to the hotel where my wife , daughter and brother-in-law were staying .
17 I found them greatly mystified by my telegram .
18 I suppose my explanation was a very lame one .
19 I know I felt decidedly like a fool .
20 Gilbert laughed at me and said I had dreamed the whole thing .
21 Virginia was perplexed , but Dolly accepted the XXXXX unhesitatingly . ''	warning		daughter|door|eyes|hotel|moment|thought|tomorrow|tones|train|warning

1 The young Prince pursued the little creature , and had almost overtaken it , when the girth of his saddle suddenly broke in two and he fell heavily to the ground .
2 No sooner had his foot touched the earth than he disappeared before the eyes of the horrified courtiers .
3 They sought for him far and near , but all in vain , and they were forced to recognise the power of the evil Fairy , against which the Queen had warned them on her death-bed .
4 The old King was much grieved when they brought him the news of his son 's disappearance , but as he could do nothing to free him from his fate , he gave himself up to an old age of grief and loneliness , cherishing at the same time the hope that some lucky chance might one day deliver the youth out of the hands of his enemy .
5 Hardly had the Prince touched the ground than he felt himself violently seized by an unseen power , and hurried away he knew not whither .
6 A whole new world stretched out before him , quite unlike the one he had left .
7 A splendid castle surrounded by a huge lake was the abode of the Fairy , and the only approach to it was over a bridge of clouds .
8 On the other side of the lake high mountains rose up , and dark woods stretched along the banks ; over all hung a thick mist , and deep silence reigned everywhere .
9 No sooner had the Fairy reached her own domain than she made herself visible , and turning to the Prince she told him that unless he obeyed all her commands down to the minutest detail he would be severely punished .
10 Then she gave him an axe made of glass , and bade him cross the bridge of clouds and go into the wood beyond and cut down all the trees there before sunset .
11 At the same time she cautioned him with many angry words against speaking to a black girl he would most likely meet in the wood .
12 The Prince listened to her words meekly , and when she had finished took up the glass axe and set out for the forest .
13 At every step he seemed to sink into the clouds , but fear gave wings to his feet , and he crossed the lake in safety and set to work at once .
14 But no sooner had he struck the first blow with his axe than it broke into a thousand pieces against the tree .
15 The poor youth was so terrified he did not know what to do , for he was in mortal dread of the punishment the wicked old Fairy would inflict on him .
16 He wandered to and fro in the wood , not knowing where he was going , and at last , worn out by fatigue and misery , he sank on the ground and fell fast asleep .
17 He did not know how long he had slept when a sudden sound awoke him , and opening his eyes he saw a black girl standing beside him .
18 Mindful of the Fairy 's warning he did not dare to address her , but she on her part greeted him in the most friendly manner , and asked him at once if he were under the power of the wicked Fairy .
19 The Prince nodded his head silently in answer .
20 Then the black girl told him that she too was in the power of the Fairy , who had doomed her to wander about in her present guise until some youth should take pity on her and bear her in safety to the other side of the river which they saw in the distance , and on the other side of which the Fairy 's domain and power ended .
21 The girl 's XXXXX so inspired the Prince with confidence that he told her all his tale of woe , and ended up by asking her advice as to how he was to escape the punishment the Fairy would be sure to inflict on him when she discovered that he had not cut down the trees in the wood and that he had broken her axe .	words		axe|clouds|dread|earth|girth|pity|power|side|words|world

1 It was fearful !
2 There was a knocking heard at the Palace gate , and the old King went to open it .
3 There stood a Princess outside the gate ; but oh , in what a sad plight she was from the rain and the storm !
4 The water was running down from her hair and her dress into the points of her shoes and out at the heels again .
5 And yet she said she was a true Princess !
6 ` Well , we shall soon find that ! '
7 thought the old Queen .
8 But she said nothing , and went into the sleeping-room , took off all the bed-clothes , and laid a pea on the bottom of the bed .
9 Then she put twenty mattresses on top of the pea , and twenty eider-down quilts on the top of the mattresses .
10 And this was the bed in which the Princess was to sleep .
11 The next morning she was asked how she had slept .
12 ` Oh , very badly ! '
13 said the Princess . '
14 I scarcely closed my eyes all night !
15 I am sure I do n't know what was in the bed .
16 I laid on something so hard that my whole body is black and blue .
17 It is dreadful ! '
18 Now they perceived that she was a true Princess , because she had felt the pea through the twenty mattresses and the twenty eider-down quilts .
19 No one but a true Princess could be so sensitive .
20 So the Prince married her , for now he knew that at last he had got hold of a true Princess .
21 And the pea was put into the Royal Museum , where it is still to be seen if no XXXXX has stolen it .	one		body|dress|mattresses|nothing|one|plight|rain|shoes|something|water

1 When they had got over the first rapture of meeting they began to make plans to escape from the power of the Prince of the Air .
2 But this did not prove easy , for the magic stone would only serve for one person at a time , and in order to save Rosalie the Prince of the Golden Isle would have to expose himself to the fury of his enemy .
3 But Rosalie would not hear of this .
4 ` No , Prince , ' she said ; ` since you are here this island no longer feels a prison .
5 Besides , you are under the protection of a Fairy , who always visits your father 's court at this season .
6 Go instantly and seek her , and when she is found implore the gift of another stone with similar powers .
7 Once you have that , there will be no further difficulty in the way of escape . '
8 The Prince of the Air returned a few days later from his mother 's palace , but the Invisible Prince had already set out .
9 He had , however , entirely forgotten the road by which he had come , and lost himself for so long in the forest , that when at last he reached home the Fairy had already left , and , in spite of all his grief , there was nothing for it but to wait till the Fairy 's next visit , and allow Rosalie to suffer three months longer .
10 This thought drove him to despair , and he had almost made up his mind to return to the place of her captivity , when one day , as he was strolling along an alley in the woods , he saw a huge oak open its trunk , and out of it step two Princes in earnest conversation .
11 As our hero had the magic stone in his mouth they imagined themselves alone , and did not lower their voices .
12 ` What ! '
13 said one , ` are you always going to allow yourself to be tormented by a passion which can never end happily , and in your whole kingdom can you find nothing else to satisfy you ? '
14 ` What is the use , ' replied the other , ` of being Prince of the Gnomes , and having a mother who is queen over all the four elements , if I can not win the love of the Princess Argentine ?
15 From the moment that I first saw her , sitting in the forest surrounded by flowers , I have never ceased to think of her night and day , and , although I love her , I am quite convinced that she will never care for me .
16 You know that I have in my palace the cabinets of the years .
17 In the first , great mirrors reflect the past ; in the second , we contemplate the present ; in the third , the future can be read .
18 It was here that I fled after I had gazed on the Princess Argentine , but instead of love I only saw scorn and contempt .
19 Think how great must be my devotion , when , in spite of my fate , I still love on ! '
20 Now the Prince of the Golden Isle was enchanted with this conversation , for the Princess Argentine was his sister , and he hoped , by means of her influence over the Prince of the Gnomes , to obtain from his brother the release of Rosalie .
21 So he joyfully returned to his XXXXX 's palace , where he found his friend the Fairy , who at once presented him with a magic pebble like his own .	father		Fairy|conversation|father|gift|means|person|prison|road|season|use

1 Are n't these camels too sickening for anything ?
2 I walked out of my lines to get a little peace and quiet here . ''
3 `` My lords , '' said the camel humbly , `` we dreamed bad dreams in the night , and we were very much afraid .
4 I am only a baggage camel of the 39th Native Infantry , and I am not as brave as you are , my lords . ''
5 `` Then why did n't you stay and carry baggage for the 39th Native Infantry , instead of running all round the camp ? ''
6 said the mule .
7 `` They were such very bad dreams , '' said the camel .
8 `` I am sorry .
9 Listen !
10 What is that ?
11 Shall we run on again ? ''
12 `` Sit down , '' said the mule , `` or you 'll snap your long stick-legs between the guns . ''
13 He cocked one ear and listened .
14 `` Bullocks ! ''
15 he said .
16 `` Gun bullocks .
17 On my word , you and your friends have waked the camp very thoroughly .
18 It takes a good deal of prodding to put up a gun-bullock . ''
19 I heard a chain dragging along the ground , and a yoke of the great sulky white bullocks that drag the heavy siege guns when the elephants wo n't go any nearer to the firing , came shouldering along together .
20 And almost stepping on the chain was another battery mule , calling wildly for `` Billy . ''
21 `` That 's one of our recruits , '' said the old XXXXX to the troop horse .	mule		Gun|anything|baggage|deal|ear|friends|ground|guns|mule|yoke

1 A celebrated magician , who had given the seed to my father , promised him that they would grow into the three finest trees the world had ever seen .
2 My father did not live to see his words come true ; but on his death-bed he bade me transplant them here , and to look after them with the greatest care , which I accordingly did .
3 At last , after the lapse of five long years , I noticed some blossoms on the branches , and a few days later the most exquisite fruit my eyes had ever seen . '
4 I gave my head-gardener the strictest orders to watch the trees carefully , for the magician had warned my father that if one unripe fruit were plucked from the tree , all the rest would become rotten at once .
5 When it was quite ripe the fruit would become a golden yellow .
6 ` Every day I gazed on the lovely fruit , which became gradually more and more tempting-looking , and it was all I could do not to break the magician 's commands .
7 ` One night I dreamt that the fruit was perfectly ripe ; I ate some of it , and it was more delicious than anything I had ever tasted in real life .
8 As soon as I awoke I sent for the gardener and asked him if the fruit on the three trees had not ripened in the night to perfection .
9 ` But instead of replying , the gardener threw himself at my feet and swore that he was innocent .
10 He said that he had watched by the trees all night , but in spite of it , and as if by magic , the beautiful trees had been robbed of all their fruit .
11 ` Grieved as I was over the theft , I did not punish the gardener , of whose fidelity I was well assured , but I determined to pluck off all the fruit in the following year before it was ripe , as I had not much belief in the magician 's warning . '
12 I carried out my intention , and had all the fruit picked off the tree , but when I tasted one of the apples it was bitter and unpleasant , and the next morning the rest of the fruit had all rotted away .
13 ` After this I had the beautiful fruit of these trees carefully guarded by my most faithful servants ; but every year , on this very night , the fruit was plucked and stolen by an invisible hand , and next morning not a single apple remained on the trees .
14 For some time past I have given up even having the trees watched . '
15 When the King had finished his story , Szabo , his eldest son , said to him : ` Forgive me , father , if I say I think you are mistaken .
16 I am sure there are many men in your kingdom who could protect these trees from the cunning arts of a thieving magician ; I myself , who as your eldest son claim the first right to do so , will mount guard over the fruit this very night . '
17 The King consented , and as soon as evening drew on Szabo climbed up on to one of the trees , determined to protect the fruit even if it cost him his life .
18 So he kept watch half the night ; but a little after midnight he was overcome by an irresistible drowsiness , and fell fast asleep .
19 He did not awake till it was bright daylight , and all the fruit on the trees had vanished .
20 The following year Warza , the second brother , tried his luck , but with the same result .
21 Then it came to the turn of the third and youngest XXXXX .	son		belief|commands|magic|magician|orders|seed|son|theft|world|year

1 `` Take him away , '' he said to Father Wolf , `` and train him as befits one of the Free People . ''
2 And that is how Mowgli was entered into the Seeonee Wolf Pack for the price of a bull and on Baloo 's good word .
3 Now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole years , and only guess at all the wonderful life that Mowgli led among the wolves , because if it were written out it would fill ever so many books .
4 He grew up with the cubs , though they , of course , were grown wolves almost before he was a child .
5 And Father Wolf taught him his business , and the meaning of things in the jungle , till every rustle in the grass , every breath of the warm night air , every note of the owls above his head , every scratch of a bat 's claws as it roosted for a while in a tree , and every splash of every little fish jumping in a pool meant just as much to him as the work of his office means to a business man .
6 When he was not learning he sat out in the sun and slept , and ate and went to sleep again .
7 When he felt dirty or hot he swam in the forest pools ; and when he wanted honey -LRB- Baloo told him that honey and nuts were just as pleasant to eat as raw meat -RRB- he climbed up for it , and that Bagheera showed him how to do .
8 Bagheera would lie out on a branch and call , `` Come along , Little Brother , '' and at first Mowgli would cling like the sloth , but afterward he would fling himself through the branches almost as boldly as the gray ape .
9 He took his place at the Council Rock , too , when the Pack met , and there he discovered that if he stared hard at any wolf , the wolf would be forced to drop his eyes , and so he used to stare for fun .
10 At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the pads of his friends , for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and burs in their coats .
11 He would go down the hillside into the cultivated lands by night , and look very curiously at the villagers in their huts , but he had a mistrust of men because Bagheera showed him a square box with a drop gate so cunningly hidden in the jungle that he nearly walked into it , and told him that it was a trap .
12 He loved better than anything else to go with Bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest , to sleep all through the drowsy day , and at night see how Bagheera did his killing .
13 Bagheera killed right and left as he felt hungry , and so did Mowgli -- with one exception .
14 As soon as he was old enough to understand things , Bagheera told him that he must never touch cattle because he had been bought into the Pack at the price of a bull 's life .
15 `` All the jungle is thine , '' said Bagheera , `` and thou canst kill everything that thou art strong enough to kill ; but for the sake of the bull that bought thee thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old .
16 That is the Law of the Jungle . ''
17 Mowgli obeyed faithfully .
18 And he grew and grew strong as a boy must grow who does not know that he is learning any lessons , and who has nothing in the world to think of except things to eat .
19 Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere Khan was not a creature to be trusted , and that some day he must kill Shere Khan .
20 But though a young wolf would have remembered that advice every hour , Mowgli forgot it because he was only a boy -- though he would have called himself a wolf if he had been able to speak in any human tongue .
21 Shere Khan was always crossing his path in the jungle , for as Akela grew older and feebler the lame tiger had come to be great XXXXX with the younger wolves of the Pack , who followed him for scraps , a thing Akela would never have allowed if he had dared to push his authority to the proper bounds .	friends		Jungle|creature|day|everything|forest|friends|lessons|nothing|price|thorns

1 She had never seen anyone who was really beautiful before -- beautiful with the loveliness of the heroines in the novels she sometimes read or the pictures she had seen .
2 Estella Bowes was not pretty .
3 She was a nice-looking girl , with clear eyes , rosy cheeks , and a pervading air of the content and happiness her life had always known .
4 She was an orphan and lived with her uncle and aunt .
5 In the summer they sometimes took a boarder for a month or two , and this summer Miss LeMar had come .
6 She had been with them about a week .
7 She was an actress from the city and had around her all the glamour of a strange , unknown life .
8 Nothing was known about her .
9 The Boweses liked her well enough as a boarder .
10 Estella admired and held her in awe .
11 She wondered what Spencer would think of this beautiful woman .
12 He had not yet seen her .
13 It was quite dark when he came .
14 Estella opened the gate for him , but he got out of his buggy and walked up the lane beside her with his arm about her .
15 Miss LeMar 's light had removed to the parlour where she was singing , accompanying herself on the cottage organ .
16 Estella felt annoyed .
17 The parlour was considered her private domain on Wednesday and Saturday night , but Miss LeMar did not know that .
18 `` Who is singing ? ''
19 asked Spencer .
20 `` What a voice she has ! ''
21 `` That 's our new XXXXX , Miss LeMar , '' answered Estella .	boarder		actress|arm|awe|boarder|buggy|eyes|glamour|lane|uncle|voice

1 And a smile played round the King 's lips as he finished speaking , and his courtiers and counsellors shook with laughter when they thought of the old woman 's folly , and praised the King 's wise device , and said to each other , ` What a joke it will be when we see the pair of them tarred and feathered !
2 The son is just as able to grow a beard on the palm of his hand as to execute such a task in twenty-four hours . '
3 Now the poor old woman was mortally afraid and , in a trembling voice she asked : ` Is that really your royal will , O King ?
4 Must I take this order to my poor son ? '
5 ` Yes , old dame ; such is my command .
6 If your son carries out my order , he shall be rewarded with my daughter ; but if he fails , away to the tar-barrel and the stake with you both ! '
7 On her way home the poor old woman shed bitter tears , and when she saw Martin she told him what the King had said , and sobbed out : ` Did n't I tell you , my son , that you should marry someone of your own rank ?
8 It would have been better for us this day if you had .
9 As I told you , my going to Court has been as much as our lives are worth , and now we will both be tarred and feathered , and burnt in the public market-place .
10 It is terrible ! '
11 and she moaned and cried .
12 ` Never fear , little mother , ' answered Martin ; ` trust me , and you will see all will be well .
13 You may go to sleep with a quiet mind . '
14 And , stepping to the front of the hut , Martin threw his ring from the palm of one hand into the other , upon which twelve youths instantly appeared , and demanded what he wanted them to do .
15 Then he told them the King 's commands , and they answered that by next morning all should be accomplished exactly as the King had ordered .
16 Next morning when the King awoke , and looked out of his window , to his amazement he beheld a magnificent castle , just opposite his own palace , and joined to it a bridge of pure crystal .
17 At each side of the bridge trees were growing , from whose branches hung golden and silver apples , among which birds of Paradise perched .
18 At the right , gleaming in the sun , were the five golden cupolas of a splendid church , whose bells rang out , as if they would summon people from all corners of the earth to come and behold the wonder .
19 Now , though the King would much rather have seen his future son-in-law tarred , feathered , and burnt at the stake , he remembered his royal oath , and had to make the best of a bad business .
20 So he took heart of grace , and made Martin a Duke , and gave his daughter a rich dowry , and prepared the grandest wedding-feast that had ever been seen , so that to this day the old people in the country still talk of it .
21 After the wedding Martin and his royal bride went to dwell in the magnificent new XXXXX , and here Martin lived in the greatest comfort and luxury , such luxury as he had never imagined .	palace		beard|castle|commands|market-place|order|palace|ring|side|task|wonder

1 she said bitterly .
2 `` How the Corner saints would stare if they saw me !
3 I suppose some of them do -- '' with a glance at the windows of a neighbouring house .
4 `` Yes , there 's Mrs. Rawlings staring out and Rose peeking over her shoulder . ''
5 Her face hardened .
6 The old sway of evil passion reasserted itself .
7 `` She shall never come back here -- never .
8 Oh , she was a sweet-spoken cat of a thing -- but she had claws .
9 I 've been blamed for all the trouble .
10 But if ever I had a chance , I 'd tell that minister how she used to twit and taunt me in that sugary way of hers -- how she schemed and plotted against me as long as she could .
11 More fool I to care what he thinks either !
12 I wish I were dead .
13 If 't was n't for the child , I 'd go and drown myself at that black spring-hole down there -- I 'd be well out of the way . ''
14 * * * * * It was a dull grey afternoon a week afterwards when Allan Telford again walked up the river road to the Palmer place .
15 The wind was bitter and he walked with bent head to avoid its fury .
16 His face was pale and worn and he looked years older .
17 He paused at the rough gate and leaned over it while he scanned the house and its surroundings eagerly .
18 As he looked , the kitchen door opened and Min , clad in the old overcoat , came out and walked swiftly across the yard .
19 Telford 's eyes followed her with pitiful absorption .
20 He saw her lead a horse from the stable and harness it into a wood-sleigh loaded with bags of grain .
21 Once she paused to fling her arms about the animal 's neck , laying her XXXXX against it with a caressing motion .	face		cat|child|face|fool|fury|gate|harness|lead|passion|way

1 So he leaned over into the barrel , which did not seem very deep , and thought he would easily reach the ring ; but the more he stretched down after it the deeper grew the barrel .
2 As he was thus bending down into it the woman suddenly rose up and pushed him in head first , saying that now he could take up his quarters there .
3 Then she fixed the top on the barrel and threw it out into the sea .
4 The Prince thought himself in a bad plight now , as he felt the barrel floating out from the land and tossing about on the waves .
5 How many days he spent thus he could not tell , but at last he felt that the barrel was knocking against rocks , at which he was a little cheered , thinking it was probably land and not merely a reef in the sea .
6 Being something of a swimmer , he at last made up his mind to kick the bottom out of the barrel , and having done so he was able to get on shore , for the rocks by the sea were smooth and level ; but overhead there were high cliffs .
7 It seemed difficult to get up these , but he went along the foot of them for a little , till at last he tried to climb up , which at last he did .
8 Having got to the top , he looked round about him and saw that he was on an island , which was covered with forest , with apples growing , and altogether pleasant as far as the land was concerned .
9 After he had been there several days , he one day heard a great noise in the forest , which made him terribly afraid , so that he ran to hide himself among the trees .
10 Then he saw a Giant approaching , dragging a sledge loaded with wood , and making straight for him , so that he could see nothing for it but to lie down just where he was .
11 When the Giant came across him , he stood still and looked at the Prince for a little ; then he took him up in his arms and carried him home to his house , and was exceedingly kind to him .
12 He gave him to his wife , saying he had found this child in the wood , and she could have it to help her in the house .
13 The old woman was greatly pleased , and began to fondle the Prince with the utmost delight .
14 He stayed there with them , and was very willing and obedient to them in everything , while they grew kinder to him every day .
15 One day the Giant took him round and showed him all his rooms except the parlour ; this made the Prince curious to have a look into it , thinking there must be some very rare treasure there .
16 So one day , when the Giant had gone into the forest , he tried to get into the parlour , and managed to get the door open half-way .
17 Then he saw that some living creature moved inside and ran along the floor towards him and said something , which made him so frightened that he sprang back from the door and shut it again .
18 As soon as the fright began to pass off he tried it again , for he thought it would be interesting to hear what it said ; but things went just as before with him .
19 He then got angry with himself , and , summoning up all his courage , tried it a third time , and opened the door of the room and stood firm .
20 Then he saw that it was a big Dog , which spoke to him and said : ` Choose me , Prince Ring . '
21 The Prince went away rather afraid , thinking with himself that it was no great treasure after all ; but all the same what it had said to him stuck in his XXXXX .	mind		Ring|cliffs|courage|delight|mind|top|trees|waves|wife|wood

1 As for their dancing , I have seen the place where -- Bapree-bap !
2 How many windings has the Dihang River ?
3 Here is another ford , and we must swim the calves .
4 Stop still , you behind there . ''
5 And in this way , talking and wrangling and splashing through the rivers , they made their first march to a sort of receiving camp for the new elephants .
6 But they lost their tempers long before they got there .
7 Then the elephants were chained by their hind legs to their big stumps of pickets , and extra ropes were fitted to the new elephants , and the fodder was piled before them , and the hill drivers went back to Petersen Sahib through the afternoon light , telling the plains drivers to be extra careful that night , and laughing when the plains drivers asked the reason .
8 Little Toomai attended to Kala Nag 's supper , and as evening fell , wandered through the camp , unspeakably happy , in search of a tom-tom .
9 When an Indian child 's heart is full , he does not run about and make a noise in an irregular fashion .
10 He sits down to a sort of revel all by himself .
11 And Little Toomai had been spoken to by Petersen Sahib !
12 If he had not found what he wanted , I believe he would have been ill .
13 But the sweetmeat seller in the camp lent him a little tom-tom -- a drum beaten with the flat of the hand -- and he sat down , cross-legged , before Kala Nag as the stars began to come out , the tom-tom in his lap , and he thumped and he thumped and he thumped , and the more he thought of the great honor that had been done to him , the more he thumped , all alone among the elephant fodder .
14 There was no tune and no words , but the thumping made him happy .
15 The new elephants strained at their ropes , and squealed and trumpeted from time to time , and he could hear his mother in the camp hut putting his small brother to sleep with an old , old song about the great God Shiv , who once told all the animals what they should eat .
16 It is a very soothing lullaby , and the first verse says : Shiv , who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow , Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago , Gave to each his portion , food and toil and fate , From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate .
17 All things made he -- Shiva the Preserver .
18 Mahadeo !
19 Mahadeo !
20 He made all -- Thorn for the camel , fodder for the kine , And mother 's heart for sleepy head , O little son of mine !
21 Little Toomai came in with a joyous tunk-a-tunk at the end of each verse , till he felt sleepy and stretched himself on the XXXXX at Kala Nag 's side .	fodder		child|fodder|food|mother|portion|ropes|sort|thumping|tune|words

1 Thus I have spared myself quite half a mile , and have come much quicker to my sea-cattle ! '
2 ` Oh , you 're a lucky fellow ! '
3 said Big Klaus .
4 ` Do you think I should also get some cattle if I went to the bottom of the river ? '
5 ` Oh , yes !
6 I think so , ' said Little Klaus .
7 ` But I ca n't carry you in a sack to the river ; you are too heavy for me !
8 If you like to go there yourself and then creep into the sack , I will throw you in with the greatest of pleasure . '
9 ` Thank you , ' said Big Klaus ; ` but if I do n't get any sea-cattle when I come there , you will have a good hiding , mind ! '
10 ` Oh , no !
11 Do n't be so hard on me ! '
12 Then they went to the river .
13 When the cattle , which were thirsty , caught sight of the water , they ran as quickly as they could to drink .
14 ` Look how they are running ! '
15 said Little Klaus .
16 ` They want to go to the bottom again ! '
17 ` Yes ; but help me first , ' said Big Klaus , ` or else you shall have a beating ! '
18 And so he crept into the large sack , which was lying on the back of one of the oxen .
19 ` Put a stone in , for I am afraid I may not reach the bottom , ' said Big Klaus .
20 ` It goes all right ! '
21 said Little Klaus ; but still he laid a big XXXXX in the sack , fastened it up tight , and then pushed it in .	stone		back|cattle|fellow|hiding|mind|oxen|river|sack|sight|stone

1 The boy in the house threw a stone at me and broke it . ''
2 Then she fluttered more desperately than ever .
3 Nagaina lifted up her head and hissed , `` You warned Rikki-tikki when I would have killed him .
4 Indeed and truly , you 've chosen a bad place to be lame in . ''
5 And she moved toward Darzee 's wife , slipping along over the dust .
6 `` The boy broke it with a stone ! ''
7 shrieked Darzee 's wife .
8 `` Well !
9 It may be some consolation to you when you 're dead to know that I shall settle accounts with the boy .
10 My husband lies on the rubbish heap this morning , but before night the boy in the house will lie very still .
11 What is the use of running away ?
12 I am sure to catch you .
13 Little fool , look at me ! ''
14 Darzee 's wife knew better than to do that , for a bird who looks at a snake 's eyes gets so frightened that she can not move .
15 Darzee 's wife fluttered on , piping sorrowfully , and never leaving the ground , and Nagaina quickened her pace .
16 Rikki-tikki heard them going up the path from the stables , and he raced for the end of the melon patch near the wall .
17 There , in the warm litter above the melons , very cunningly hidden , he found twenty-five eggs , about the size of a bantam 's eggs , but with whitish skin instead of shell .
18 `` I was not a day too soon , '' he said , for he could see the baby cobras curled up inside the skin , and he knew that the minute they were hatched they could each kill a man or a mongoose .
19 He bit off the tops of the eggs as fast as he could , taking care to crush the young cobras , and turned over the litter from time to time to see whether he had missed any .
20 At last there were only three eggs left , and Rikki-tikki began to chuckle to himself , when he heard Darzee 's wife screaming : `` Rikki-tikki , I led Nagaina toward the house , and she has gone into the veranda , and -- oh , come quickly -- she means killing ! ''
21 Rikki-tikki smashed two eggs , and tumbled backward down the melon-bed with the third egg in his mouth , and scuttled to the veranda as hard as he could put foot to the XXXXX .	ground		baby|bird|eyes|ground|heap|husband|path|snake|stables|use

1 Certainly it was very delightful to be able to see her whom he loved at any moment he chose , but his spirits sometimes sank when he wondered what was to be the end of this adventure .
2 The magic mirror had been for about a year in the Prince 's possession , when one day a new subject of disquiet seized upon him .
3 As usual , he was engaged in looking at the girl , when suddenly he thought he saw a second mirror reflected in the first , exactly like his own , and with the same power .
4 And in this he was perfectly right .
5 The young girl had only possessed it for a short time , and neglected all her duties for the sake of the mirror .
6 Now it was not difficult for Saphir to guess the reason of the change in her , nor why the new mirror was consulted so often ; but try as he would he could never see the face of the person who was reflected in it , for the young girl 's figure always came between .
7 All he knew was that the face was that of a man , and this was quite enough to make him madly jealous .
8 This was the doing of the fairies , and we must suppose that they had their reasons for acting as they did .
9 When these things happened Saphir was about eighteen years old , and fifteen years had passed away since the death of his mother .
10 King Peridor had grown more and more unhappy as time went on , and at last he fell so ill that it seemed as if his days were numbered .
11 He was so much beloved by his subjects that this sad news was heard with despair by the nation , and more than all by the Prince .
12 During his whole illness the King never spoke of anything but the Queen , his sorrow at having grieved her , and his hope of one day seeing her again .
13 All the doctors and all the water-cures in the kingdom had been tried , and nothing would do him any good .
14 At last he persuaded them to let him lie quietly in his room , where no one came to trouble him .
15 Perhaps the worst pain he had to bear was a sort of weight on his chest , which made it very hard for him to breathe .
16 So he commanded his servants to leave the windows open in order that he might get more air .
17 One day , when he had been left alone for a few minutes , a bird with brilliant plumage came and fluttered round the window , and finally rested on the sill .
18 His feathers were sky-blue and gold , his feet and his beak of such glittering rubies that no one could bear to look at them , his eyes made the brightest diamonds look dull , and on his head he wore a crown .
19 I can not tell you what the crown was made of , but I am quite certain that it was still more splendid than all the rest .
20 As to his voice I can say nothing about that , for the bird never sang at all .
21 In fact , he did XXXXX but gaze steadily at the King , and as he gazed , the King felt his strength come back to him .	nothing		air|change|diamonds|head|mirror|news|nothing|order|room|windows

1 And the Big Half Moon is such a place for gulls -- there are hundreds of them here .
2 One day there was a grand wind for kite-flying , and Claude and I were having a splendid time .
3 We used our smaller kites for signalling , and when we got tired of that Claude sent me to the house for the big one .
4 I 'm sure I do n't know how it happened , but when I was coming back over the rocks I tripped and fell , and my elbow went clear through that lovely kite .
5 You would never have believed that one small elbow could make such a big hole .
6 Claude said it was just like a girl to fall and stick her elbow through a kite , but I do n't see why it should be any more like a girl than a boy .
7 Do you ?
8 We had to hurry to fix the kite if we wanted to send it up before the wind fell , so we rushed into the lighthouse to get some paper .
9 We knew there was no more red paper , and the looks of the kite were spoiled , anyhow , so we just took the first thing that came handy -- an old letter that was lying on the bookcase in the sitting-room .
10 I suppose we should n't have taken it , although , as matters turned out , it was the best thing we could have done ; but Father was away to the mainland to buy things , and we never thought it could make any difference about an old yellow letter .
11 It was one Father had taken from a drawer in the bookcase which he had cleaned out the night before .
12 We patched the kite up with the letter , a sheet on each side , and dried it by the fire .
13 Then we started out , and up went the kite like a bird .
14 The wind was glorious , and it soared and strained like something alive .
15 All at once -- snap !
16 And there was Claude , standing with a bit of cord in his hand , looking as foolish as a flatfish , and our kite sailing along at a fearful rate of speed over to the mainland .
17 I might have said to Claude , So like a boy !
18 but I did n't .
19 Instead , I sympathized with him , and pointed out that it really did n't matter because I had spoiled it by jabbing my elbow through it .
20 By this time the kite was out of sight , and we never expected to see or hear of it again .
21 * * * * * A month later a XXXXX came to the Big Half Moon for Father .	letter		bookcase|boy|girl|hundreds|letter|rocks|sheet|something|time|wind

1 Then they burned the old troll and her to ashes , and explored the cave , where they found plenty of gold and treasures .
2 The most valuable of these they carried with them as far as the cliff , and left them there .
3 Then they hastened home to the King with his three treasures , where they arrived late on Christmas night , and Ring handed them over to him .
4 The King was beside himself with joy , and was astonished at how clever a man Ring was in all kinds of feats , so that he esteemed him still more highly than before , and betrothed his daughter to him ; and the feast for this was to last all through Christmastide .
5 Ring thanked the King courteously for this and all his other kindnesses , and as soon as he had finished eating and drinking in the hall went off to sleep in his own room .
6 Snati , however , asked permission to sleep in the Prince 's bed for that night , while the Prince should sleep where the Dog usually lay .
7 Ring said he was welcome to do so , and that he deserved more from him than that came to .
8 So Snati went up into the Prince 's bed , but after a time he came back , and told Ring he could go there himself now , but to take care not to meddle with anything that was in the bed .
9 Now the story comes back to Red , who came into the hall and showed the King his right arm wanting the hand , and said that now he could see what kind of a man his intended son-in-law was , for he had done this to him without any cause whatever .
10 The King became very angry , and said he would soon find out the truth about it , and if Ring had cut off his hand without good cause he should be hanged ; but if it was otherwise , then Red should die .
11 So the King sent for Ring and asked him for what reason he had done this .
12 Snati , however , had just told Ring what had happened during the night , and in reply he asked the King to go with him and he would show him something .
13 The King went with him to his sleeping-room , and saw lying on the bed a man 's hand holding a sword .
14 ` This hand , ' said Ring , ` came over the partition during the night , and was about to run me through in my bed , if I had not defended myself . '
15 The King answered that in that case he could not blame him for protecting his own life , and that Red was well worthy of death .
16 So Red was hanged , and Ring married the King 's daughter .
17 The first night that they went to bed together Snati asked Ring to allow him to lie at their feet , and this Ring allowed him to do .
18 During the night he heard a howling and outcry beside them , struck a light in a hurry and saw an ugly dog 's skin lying near him , and a beautiful Prince in the bed .
19 Ring instantly took the skin and burned it , and then shook the Prince , who was lying unconscious , until he woke up .
20 The bridegroom then asked his name ; he replied that he was called Ring , and was a King 's son .
21 In his youth he had lost his mother , and in her place his father had married a witch , who had laid a spell on him that he should turn into a dog , and never be released from the spell unless a Prince of the same XXXXX as himself allowed him to sleep at his feet the first night after his marriage .	name		bridegroom|case|hall|hand|hurry|name|outcry|partition|something|son

1 So he brought his sheep there , and herded them as before .
2 The shepherd and shepherdess became great friends , but they did not recognise each other in the least .
3 But one evening when the moon was full they sat together watching their flocks , and the shepherd played upon his flute .
4 Then the shepherdess thought of that evening when she had sat at the full moon by the mill-pond and had played on the golden flute ; the recollection was too much for her , and she burst into tears .
5 The shepherd asked her why she was crying , and left her no peace till she told him all her story .
6 Then the scales fell from the shepherd 's eyes , and he recognised his wife , and she him .
7 So they returned joyfully to their own home , and lived in peace and happiness ever after .
8 THE GLASS MOUNTAIN -LRB- 16 -RRB- -LRB- 16 -RRB- From the Polish .
9 Kletke .
10 Once upon a time there was a Glass Mountain at the top of which stood a castle made of pure gold , and in front of the castle there grew an apple-tree on which there were golden apples .
11 Anyone who picked an apple gained admittance into the golden castle , and there in a silver room sat an enchanted Princess of surpassing fairness and beauty .
12 She was as rich too as she was beautiful , for the cellars of the castle were full of precious stones , and great chests of the finest gold stood round the walls of all the rooms .
13 Many knights had come from afar to try their luck , but it was in vain they attempted to climb the mountain .
14 In spite of having their horses shod with sharp nails , no one managed to get more than half-way up , and then they all fell back right down to the bottom of the steep slippery hill .
15 Sometimes they broke an arm , sometimes a leg , and many a brave man had broken his neck even .
16 The beautiful Princess sat at her window and watched the bold knights trying to reach her on their splendid horses .
17 The sight of her always gave men fresh courage , and they flocked from the four quarters of the globe to attempt the work of rescuing her .
18 But all in vain , and for seven years the Princess had sat now and waited for some one to scale the Glass Mountain .
19 A heap of corpses both of riders and horses lay round the mountain , and many dying men lay groaning there unable to go any farther with their wounded limbs .
20 The whole neighbourhood had the appearance of a vast churchyard .
21 In three more days the seven years would be at an end , when a knight in golden armour and mounted on a spirited steed was seen making his way towards the fatal XXXXX .	hill		arm|cellars|hill|knights|man|peace|recollection|sight|thought|time

1 she said to herself , for she had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered .
2 They very soon came upon a Gryphon , lying fast asleep in the sun .
3 -LRB- IF you do n't know what a Gryphon is , look at the picture . -RRB-
4 ` Up , lazy thing ! '
5 said the Queen , ` and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle , and to hear his history .
6 I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered ' ; and she walked off , leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon .
7 Alice did not quite like the look of the creature , but on the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage Queen : so she waited .
8 The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes : then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight : then it chuckled .
9 ` What fun ! '
10 said the Gryphon , half to itself , half to Alice .
11 ` What IS the fun ? '
12 said Alice .
13 ` Why , SHE , ' said the Gryphon .
14 ` It 's all her fancy , that : they never executes nobody , you know .
15 Come on ! '
16 ` Everybody says `` come on ! ''
17 here , ' thought Alice , as she went slowly after it : ' I never was so ordered about in all my life , never ! '
18 They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance , sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock , and , as they came nearer , Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break .
19 She pitied him deeply .
20 ` What is his sorrow ? '
21 she asked the Gryphon , and the Gryphon answered , very nearly in the same words as before , ` It 's all his fancy , that : he has n't got no XXXXX , you know .	sorrow		Everybody|SHE|creature|eyes|fancy|half|look|sight|sorrow|thing

1 `` Are you going home for Christmas too ? ''
2 asked Aunt Cyrilla .
3 The girl shook her head .
4 `` I have n't any home .
5 I 'm just a shop girl out of work at present , and I 'm going to Pembroke to look for some . ''
6 Aunt Cyrilla went to her basket and took out her box of cream candy .
7 `` I guess we might as well enjoy ourselves .
8 Let 's eat it all up and have a good time .
9 Maybe we 'll get down to Pembroke in the morning . ''
10 The little group grew cheerful as they nibbled , and even the pale girl brightened up .
11 The little mother told Aunt Cyrilla her story aside .
12 She had been long estranged from her family , who had disapproved of her marriage .
13 Her husband had died the previous summer , leaving her in poor circumstances .
14 `` Father wrote to me last week and asked me to let bygones be bygones and come home for Christmas .
15 I was so glad .
16 And the children 's hearts were set on it .
17 It seems too bad that we are not to get there .
18 I have to be back at work the morning after Christmas . ''
19 The khaki boy came up again and shared the candy .
20 He told amusing stories of campaigning in South Africa .
21 The minister came too , and listened , and even the sealskin lady turned her XXXXX over her shoulder .	head		Aunt|basket|children|circumstances|family|girl|group|head|husband|week

1 And here Alice began to get rather sleepy , and went on saying to herself , in a dreamy sort of way , ` Do cats eat bats ?
2 Do cats eat bats ? '
3 and sometimes , ` Do bats eat cats ? '
4 for , you see , as she could n't answer either question , it did n't much matter which way she put it .
5 She felt that she was dozing off , and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah , and saying to her very earnestly , ` Now , Dinah , tell me the truth : did you ever eat a bat ? '
6 when suddenly , thump !
7 thump !
8 down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves , and the fall was over .
9 Alice was not a bit hurt , and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment : she looked up , but it was all dark overhead ; before her was another long passage , and the White Rabbit was still in sight , hurrying down it .
10 There was not a moment to be lost : away went Alice like the wind , and was just in time to hear it say , as it turned a corner , ` Oh my ears and whiskers , how late it 's getting ! '
11 She was close behind it when she turned the corner , but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen : she found herself in a long , low hall , which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof .
12 There were doors all round the hall , but they were all locked ; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other , trying every door , she walked sadly down the middle , wondering how she was ever to get out again .
13 Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table , all made of solid glass ; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key , and Alice 's first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall ; but , alas !
14 either the locks were too large , or the key was too small , but at any rate it would not open any of them .
15 However , on the second time round , she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before , and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high : she tried the little golden key in the lock , and to her great delight it fitted !
16 Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage , not much larger than a rat-hole : she knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw .
17 How she longed to get out of that dark hall , and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains , but she could not even get her head through the doorway ; ` and even if my head would go through , ' thought poor Alice , ` it would be of very little use without my shoulders .
18 Oh , how I wish I could shut up like a telescope !
19 I think I could , if I only know how to begin . '
20 For , you see , so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately , that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible .
21 There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door , so she went back to the XXXXX , half hoping she might find another key on it , or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes : this time she found a little bottle on it , -LRB- ` which certainly was not here before , ' said Alice , -RRB- and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label , with the words ` DRINK ME ' beautifully printed on it in large letters .	table		corner|garden|glass|hall|head|moment|nothing|table|time|way

1 You must climb up to the top , and then you will see a hole through which you can let yourself down into the tree .
2 I will tie a rope round your waist , so that I may be able to pull you up again when you call . '
3 ` What shall I do down there ? '
4 asked the Soldier .
5 ` Get money ! '
6 answered the Witch .
7 ` Listen !
8 When you reach the bottom of the tree you will find yourself in a large hall ; it is light there , for there are more than three hundred lamps burning .
9 Then you will see three doors , which you can open -- the keys are in the locks .
10 If you go into the first room , you will see a great chest in the middle of the floor with a dog sitting upon it ; he has eyes as large as saucers , but you need n't trouble about him .
11 I will give you my blue-check apron , which you must spread out on the floor , and then go back quickly and fetch the dog and set him upon it ; open the chest and take as much money as you like .
12 It is copper there .
13 If you would rather have silver , you must go into the next room , where there is a dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels .
14 But do n't take any notice of him ; just set him upon my apron , and help yourself to the money .
15 If you prefer gold , you can get that too , if you go into the third room , and as much as you like to carry .
16 But the dog that guards the chest there has eyes as large as the Round Tower at Copenhagen !
17 He is a savage dog , I can tell you ; but you need n't be afraid of him either .
18 Only , put him on my apron and he wo n't touch you , and you can take out of the chest as much gold as you like ! '
19 ` Come , this is not bad ! '
20 said the Soldier .
21 ` But what am I to give you , old XXXXX ; for surely you are not going to do this for nothing ? '	Witch		Witch|bottom|chest|dog|floor|gold|keys|lamps|locks|tree

1 She was very ugly to look at : her under-lip hung down to her breast .
2 ` Good evening , Soldier ! '
3 she said .
4 ` What a fine sword and knapsack you have !
5 You are something like a soldier !
6 You ought to have as much money as you would like to carry ! '
7 ` Thank you , old Witch , ' said the Soldier .
8 ` Do you see that great tree there ? '
9 said the Witch , pointing to a tree beside them .
10 ` It is hollow within .
11 You must climb up to the top , and then you will see a hole through which you can let yourself down into the tree .
12 I will tie a rope round your waist , so that I may be able to pull you up again when you call . '
13 ` What shall I do down there ? '
14 asked the Soldier .
15 ` Get money ! '
16 answered the Witch .
17 ` Listen !
18 When you reach the bottom of the tree you will find yourself in a large hall ; it is light there , for there are more than three hundred lamps burning .
19 Then you will see three doors , which you can open -- the keys are in the locks .
20 If you go into the first room , you will see a great chest in the middle of the floor with a dog sitting upon it ; he has eyes as large as saucers , but you need n't trouble about him .
21 I will give you my blue-check apron , which you must spread out on the floor , and then go back quickly and fetch the XXXXX and set him upon it ; open the chest and take as much money as you like .	dog		Witch|chest|dog|eyes|hall|locks|middle|money|soldier|trouble

1 As soon as she was small enough to get through the door , she ran out of the house , and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside .
2 The poor little Lizard , Bill , was in the middle , being held up by two guinea-pigs , who were giving it something out of a bottle .
3 They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared ; but she ran off as hard as she could , and soon found herself safe in a thick wood .
4 ` The first thing I 've got to do , ' said Alice to herself , as she wandered about in the wood , ` is to grow to my right size again ; and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden .
5 I think that will be the best plan . '
6 It sounded an excellent plan , no doubt , and very neatly and simply arranged ; the only difficulty was , that she had not the smallest idea how to set about it ; and while she was peering about anxiously among the trees , a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a great hurry .
7 An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes , and feebly stretching out one paw , trying to touch her .
8 ` Poor little thing ! '
9 said Alice , in a coaxing tone , and she tried hard to whistle to it ; but she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be hungry , in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing .
10 Hardly knowing what she did , she picked up a little bit of stick , and held it out to the puppy ; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once , with a yelp of delight , and rushed at the stick , and made believe to worry it ; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle , to keep herself from being run over ; and the moment she appeared on the other side , the puppy made another rush at the stick , and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it ; then Alice , thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse , and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet , ran round the thistle again ; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick , running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back , and barking hoarsely all the while , till at last it sat down a good way off , panting , with its tongue hanging out of its mouth , and its great eyes half shut .
11 This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape ; so she set off at once , and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath , and till the puppy 's bark sounded quite faint in the distance .
12 ` And yet what a dear little puppy it was ! '
13 said Alice , as she leant against a buttercup to rest herself , and fanned herself with one of the leaves : ' I should have liked teaching it tricks very much , if -- if I 'd only been the right size to do it !
14 Oh dear !
15 I 'd nearly forgotten that I 've got to grow up again !
16 Let me see -- how IS it to be managed ?
17 I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other ; but the great question is , what ? '
18 The great question certainly was , what ?
19 Alice looked all round her at the flowers and the blades of grass , but she did not see anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances .
20 There was a large mushroom growing near her , about the same height as herself ; and when she had looked under it , and on both sides of it , and behind it , it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it .
21 She stretched herself up on tiptoe , and peeped over the edge of the XXXXX , and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar , that was sitting on the top with its arms folded , quietly smoking a long hookah , and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else .	mushroom		animals|door|doubt|idea|look|mushroom|puppy|question|time|way

1 all the wheels ran down and then the music ceased .
2 The Emperor sprang up , and had his physician summoned , but what could HE do !
3 Then the clockmaker came , and , after a great deal of talking and examining , he put the bird somewhat in order , but he said that it must be very seldom used as the works were nearly worn out , and it was impossible to put in new ones .
4 Here was a calamity !
5 Only once a year was the artificial bird allowed to sing , and even that was almost too much for it .
6 But then the bandmaster made a little speech full of hard words , saying that it was just as good as before .
7 And so , of course , it WAS just as good as before .
8 So five years passed , and then a great sorrow came to the nation .
9 The Chinese look upon their Emperor as everything , and now he was ill , and not likely to live it was said .
10 Already a new Emperor had been chosen , and the people stood outside in the street and asked the First Lord how the old Emperor was .
11 ` P ! '
12 said he , and shook his head .
13 Cold and pale lay the Emperor in his splendid great bed ; the whole Court believed him dead , and one after the other left him to pay their respects to the new Emperor .
14 Everywhere in the halls and corridors cloth was laid down so that no footstep could be heard , and everything was still -- very , very still .
15 And nothing came to break the silence .
16 The Emperor longed for something to come and relieve the monotony of this deathlike stillness .
17 If only someone would speak to him !
18 If only someone would sing to him .
19 Music would carry his thoughts away , and would break the spell lying on him .
20 The moon was streaming in at the open window ; but that , too , was silent , quite silent .
21 ` XXXXX !	Music		Music|bed|calamity|nation|respects|something|spell|stillness|thoughts|window

1 First I killed my horses , then my grandmother !
2 It is all your fault ; but you sha 'n' t do it again ! '
3 And he seized Little Klaus , pushed him in the sack , threw it over his shoulder , crying out ` Now I am going to drown you ! '
4 He had to go a long way before he came to the river , and Little Klaus was not very light .
5 The road passed by the church ; the organ was sounding , and the people were singing most beautifully .
6 Big Klaus put down the sack with Little Klaus in it by the church-door , and thought that he might as well go in and hear a psalm before going on farther .
7 Little Klaus could not get out , and everybody was in church ; so he went in .
8 ` Oh , dear !
9 oh , dear ! '
10 groaned Little Klaus in the sack , twisting and turning himself .
11 But he could not undo the string .
12 There came by an old , old shepherd , with snow-white hair and a long staff in his hand .
13 He was driving a herd of cows and oxen .
14 These pushed against the sack so that it was overturned .
15 ` Alas ! '
16 moaned Little Klans , ' I am so young and yet I must die ! '
17 ` And I , poor man , ' said the cattle-driver , ' I am so old and yet I can not die ! '
18 ` Open the sack , ' called out Little Klaus ; ` creep in here instead of me , and you will die in a moment ! ' '
19 I will gladly do that , ' said the cattle-driver ; and he opened the sack , and Little Klaus struggled out at once .
20 ` You will take care of the cattle , wo n't you ? '
21 asked the old XXXXX , creeping into the sack , which Little Klaus fastened up and then went on with the cows and oxen .	man		care|cattle|hand|horses|man|moment|organ|sack|staff|way

1 Peter just stared .
2 For a full minute he could n't find his voice .
3 Old Mr. Toad was changing his clothes !
4 Yes , Sir , that is just what Old Mr. Toad was doing .
5 He was taking off his old suit , and under it was a brand new one .
6 But such a time as he was having !
7 He was opening and shutting his big mouth , and drawing his hind legs under him , and rubbing them against his body .
8 Then Peter saw a strange thing .
9 He saw that Old Mr. Toad 's old suit had split in several places , and he was getting it off by sucking it into his mouth !
10 In a few minutes his hind legs were free of the old suit , and little by little it began to be pulled free from his body .
11 All the time Old Mr. Toad was working very hard to suck it at the corners of his big mouth .
12 He glared angrily at Peter , but he could n't say anything because his mouth was too full .
13 He looked so funny that Peter just threw himself on the ground and rolled over and over with laughter .
14 This made Old Mr. Toad glare more angrily than ever , but he could n't say anything , not a word .
15 When he had got his hands free by pulling the sleeves of his old coat off inside out , he used his hands to pull the last of it over his head .
16 Then he gulped very hard two or three times to swallow his old suit , and when the last of it had disappeared , he found his voice .
17 `` Do n't you know that it is the most impolite thing in the world to look at people when they are changing their clothes ? ''
18 he sputtered .
19 XIV OLD MR. TOAD DISAPPEARS Admit your fault when you 've done wrong , And do n't postpone it over long .
20 Peter Rabbit did n't blame Old Mr. Toad a bit for being indignant because Peter had watched him change his suit .
21 It was n't a nice XXXXX to do .	thing		Sir|brand|coat|corners|ground|head|mouth|thing|times|voice

1 And one of the ladies-in-waiting had to go down ; but she put on wooden clogs .
2 ` What will you take for the pot ? '
3 asked the lady-in-waiting . '
4 I will have ten kisses from the Princess , ' answered the Swineherd .
5 ` Heaven forbid ! '
6 said the lady-in-waiting .
7 ` Yes , I will sell it for nothing less , ' replied the Swineherd .
8 ` Well , what does he say ? '
9 asked the Princess . '
10 I really hardly like to tell you , ' answered the lady-in-waiting .
11 ` Oh , then you can whisper it to me . '
12 ` He is disobliging ! '
13 said the Princess , and went away .
14 But she had only gone a few steps when the bells rang out so prettily -- ` Where is Augustus dear ?
15 Alas !
16 he 's not here , here , here . '
17 ` Listen ! '
18 said the Princess .
19 ` Ask him whether he will take ten kisses from my ladies-in-waiting . '
20 ` No , thank you , ' said the Swineherd .
21 ` Ten XXXXX from the Princess , or else I keep my pot . '	kisses		bells|gone|kisses|nothing|pot|rang|replied|sell|steps|thank

1 ` But he shall not succeed , ' cried he of the little hat , ' I will make a frost come which shall make the fire ashamed and die out ! '
2 So he put his hat on straight , and at once there came such a frost that all the heat disappeared and the food on the dishes began to freeze .
3 When a couple of hours had passed , and the King thought they must be quite dead from the heat , he had the doors opened and went in himself to see .
4 But when the doors were opened , there stood all Six , alive and well , saying they were glad they could come out to warm themselves , for the great cold in the room had frozen all the food hard in the dishes .
5 Then the King went angrily to the cook , and scolded him , and asked him why he had not done what he was told .
6 But the cook answered , ` There is heat enough there ; see for yourself . '
7 Then the King saw a huge fire burning under the iron room , and understood that he could do no harm to the Six in this way .
8 The King now began again to think how he could free himself from his unwelcome guests .
9 He commanded the master to come before him , and said , ` If you will take gold , and give up your right to my daughter , you shall have as much as you like . '
10 ` Oh , yes , your Majesty , ' answered he , ` give me as much as my servant can carry , and I will give up your daughter . '
11 The King was delighted , and the man said , ' I will come and fetch it in fourteen days . '
12 Then he called all the tailors in the kingdom together , and made them sit down for fourteen days sewing at a sack .
13 When it was finished , he made the strong man who had uprooted the trees take the sack on his shoulder and go with him to the King .
14 Then the King said , ` What a powerful fellow that is , carrying that bale of linen as large as a house on his shoulder ! '
15 and he was much frightened , and thought ` What a lot of gold he will make away with ! '
16 Then he had a ton of gold brought , which sixteen of the strongest men had to carry ; but the strong man seized it with one hand , put it in the sack , saying , ` Why do n't you bring me more ?
17 That scarcely covers the bottom ! '
18 Then the King had to send again and again to fetch his treasures , which the strong man shoved into the sack , and the sack was only half full .
19 ` Bring more , ' he cried , ` these crumbs do n't fill it . '
20 So seven thousand waggons of the gold of the whole kingdom were driven up ; these the strong man shoved into the sack , oxen and all . '
21 I will no longer be particular , ' he said , ` and will take what comes , so that the XXXXX shall be full . '	sack		burning|daughter|doors|frost|hat|kingdom|oxen|room|sack|trees

1 You will sleep better on a pillow than on damp moss . '
2 The youth hesitated for a little , but presently he heard the birds saying from the top of the tree , ` Go where she calls you , but take care to give no blood , or you will sell your soul . '
3 So the youth went with her , and soon they reached a beautiful garden , where stood a splendid house , which glittered in the moonlight as if it was all built out of gold and silver .
4 When the youth entered he found many splendid chambers , each one finer than the last .
5 Hundreds of tapers burnt upon golden candlesticks , and shed a light like the brightest day .
6 At length they reached a chamber where a table was spread with the most costly dishes .
7 At the table were placed two chairs , one of silver , the other of gold .
8 The maiden seated herself upon the golden chair , and offered the silver one to her companion .
9 They were served by maidens dressed in white , whose feet made no sound as they moved about , and not a word was spoken during the meal .
10 Afterwards the youth and the Witch-maiden conversed pleasantly together , until a woman , dressed in red , came in to remind them that it was bedtime .
11 The youth was now shown into another room , containing a silken bed with down cushions , where he slept delightfully , yet he seemed to hear a voice near his bed which repeated to him , ` Remember to give no blood ! '
12 The next morning the maiden asked him whether he would not like to stay with her always in this beautiful place , and as he did not answer immediately , she continued : ` You see how I always remain young and beautiful , and I am under no one 's orders , but can do just what I like , so that I have never thought of marrying before .
13 But from the moment I saw you I took a fancy to you , so if you agree , we might be married and might live together like princes , because I have great riches . '
14 The youth could not but be tempted with the beautiful maiden 's offer , but he remembered how the birds had called her the witch , and their warning always sounded in his ears .
15 Therefore he answered cautiously , ` Do not be angry , dear maiden , if I do not decide immediately on this important matter .
16 Give me a few days to consider before we come to an understanding . '
17 ` Why not ? '
18 answered the maiden .
19 ` Take some weeks to consider if you like , and take counsel with your own heart . '
20 And to make the time pass pleasantly , she took the youth over every part of her beautiful dwelling , and showed him all her splendid treasures .
21 But these treasures were all produced by enchantment , for the XXXXX could make anything she wished appear by the help of King Solomon 's signet ring ; only none of these things remained fixed ; they passed away like the wind without leaving a trace behind .	maiden		Hundreds|care|maiden|moonlight|place|soul|tree|witch|word|youth

1 groaned Little Klaus up in the shed , when he saw the good food disappearing .
2 ` Is anybody up there ? '
3 asked the farmer , catching sight of Little Klaus .
4 ` Why are you lying there ?
5 Come with me into the house . '
6 Then Little Klaus told him how he had lost his way , and begged to be allowed to spend the night there .
7 ` Yes , certainly , ' said the farmer ; ` but we must first have something to eat ! '
8 The wife received them both very kindly , spread a long table , and gave them a large plate of porridge .
9 The farmer was hungry , and ate with a good appetite ; but Little Klaus could not help thinking of the delicious dishes of fish and roast meats and cakes which he knew were in the oven .
10 Under the table at his feet he had laid the sack with the horse-skin in it , for , as we know , he was going to the town to sell it .
11 The porridge did not taste good to him , so he trod upon his sack , and the dry skin in the sack squeaked loudly .
12 ` Hush ! '
13 said Little Klaus to his sack , at the same time treading on it again so that it squeaked even louder than before .
14 ` Hallo !
15 what have you got in your sack ? '
16 asked the farmer .
17 ` Oh , it is a wizard ! '
18 said Little Klaus .
19 ` He says we should not eat porridge , for he has conjured the whole oven full of roast meats and fish and cakes . '
20 ` Goodness me ! '
21 said the farmer ; and opening the oven he saw all the delicious , tempting dishes his wife had hidden there , but which he now believed the XXXXX in the sack had conjured up for them .	wizard		food|oven|sack|shed|sight|skin|something|thinking|time|wizard

1 A heap of corpses both of riders and horses lay round the mountain , and many dying men lay groaning there unable to go any farther with their wounded limbs .
2 The whole neighbourhood had the appearance of a vast churchyard .
3 In three more days the seven years would be at an end , when a knight in golden armour and mounted on a spirited steed was seen making his way towards the fatal hill .
4 Sticking his spurs into his horse he made a rush at the mountain , and got up half-way , then he calmly turned his horse 's head and came down again without a slip or stumble .
5 The following day he started in the same way ; the horse trod on the glass as if it had been level earth , and sparks of fire flew from its hoofs .
6 All the other knights gazed in astonishment , for he had almost gained the summit , and in another moment he would have reached the apple-tree ; but of a sudden a huge eagle rose up and spread its mighty wings , hitting as it did so the knight 's horse in the eye .
7 The beast shied , opened its wide nostrils and tossed its mane , then rearing high up in the air , its hind feet slipped and it fell with its rider down the steep mountain side .
8 Nothing was left of either of them except their bones , which rattled in the battered golden armour like dry peas in a pod .
9 And now there was only one more day before the close of the seven years .
10 Then there arrived on the scene a mere schoolboy -- a merry , happy-hearted youth , but at the same time strong and well-grown .
11 He saw how many knights had broken their necks in vain , but undaunted he approached the steep mountain on foot and began the ascent .
12 For long he had heard his parents speak of the beautiful Princess who sat in the golden castle at the top of the Glass Mountain .
13 He listened to all he heard , and determined that he too would try his luck .
14 But first he went to the forest and caught a lynx , and cutting off the creature 's sharp claws , he fastened them on to his own hands and feet .
15 Armed with these weapons he boldly started up the Glass Mountain .
16 The sun was nearly going down , and the youth had not got more than half-way up .
17 He could hardly draw breath he was so worn out , and his mouth was parched by thirst .
18 A huge black cloud passed over his head , but in vain did he beg and beseech her to let a drop of water fall on him .
19 He opened his mouth , but the black cloud sailed past and not as much as a drop of dew moistened his dry lips .
20 His feet were torn and bleeding , and he could only hold on now with his hands .
21 Evening closed in , and he strained his eyes to see if he could behold the XXXXX of the mountain .	top		claws|close|day|end|knights|merry|rider|thirst|top|youth

1 O haste !
2 We -- we may catch them yet ! ''
3 Baloo panted .
4 `` At that speed !
5 It would not tire a wounded cow .
6 Teacher of the Law -- cub-beater -- a mile of that rolling to and fro would burst thee open .
7 Sit still and think !
8 Make a plan .
9 This is no time for chasing .
10 They may drop him if we follow too close . ''
11 `` Arrula !
12 Whoo !
13 They may have dropped him already , being tired of carrying him .
14 Who can trust the Bandar-log ?
15 Put dead bats on my head !
16 Give me black bones to eat !
17 Roll me into the hives of the wild bees that I may be stung to death , and bury me with the Hyaena , for I am most miserable of bears !
18 Arulala !
19 Wahooa !
20 O Mowgli , Mowgli !
21 Why did I not warn thee against the Monkey-Folk instead of breaking thy XXXXX ?	head		O|Roll|Sit|bats|bones|head|mile|plan|speed|tire

1 But all the same he did not enjoy his good fortune , for he could not forget his compact with the nixy , and he knew that sooner or later she would demand his fulfilment of it .
2 But year after year went by , and the boy grew up and became a great hunter , and the lord of the land took him into his service , for he was as smart and bold a hunter as you would wish to see .
3 In a short time he married a pretty young wife , and lived with her in great peace and happiness .
4 One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet , and ran for some way in front of him in the open field .
5 The hunter pursued it hotly for some time , and at last shot it dead .
6 Then he proceeded to skin it , never noticing that he was close to the mill-pond , which from childhood up he had been taught to avoid .
7 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
8 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves .
9 When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew very anxious , and when his game bag was found close to the mill-pond she guessed at once what had befallen him .
10 She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing .
11 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
12 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
13 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
14 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
15 The hunter 's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .
16 Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon , but it passed at last , and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond , combed her black hair with a golden comb , and when she had finished , placed the comb on the bank ; then she watched the water impatiently .
17 Soon she heard a rushing sound , and a big wave rose suddenly and swept the comb off the bank , and a minute after the head of her husband rose from the pond and gazed sadly at her .
18 But immediately another wave came , and the head sank back into the water without having said a word .
19 The pond lay still and motionless , glittering in the moonshine , and the hunter 's wife was not a bit better off than she had been before .
20 In despair she wandered about for days and nights , and at last , worn out by fatigue , she sank once more into a deep sleep , and dreamt exactly the same dream about the old witch .
21 So next morning she went again to the flowery XXXXX and sought the witch in her hut , and told her of her grief .	meadow		bank|blood|childhood|hands|hunter|meadow|service|shot|skin|word

1 A splendid castle surrounded by a huge lake was the abode of the Fairy , and the only approach to it was over a bridge of clouds .
2 On the other side of the lake high mountains rose up , and dark woods stretched along the banks ; over all hung a thick mist , and deep silence reigned everywhere .
3 No sooner had the Fairy reached her own domain than she made herself visible , and turning to the Prince she told him that unless he obeyed all her commands down to the minutest detail he would be severely punished .
4 Then she gave him an axe made of glass , and bade him cross the bridge of clouds and go into the wood beyond and cut down all the trees there before sunset .
5 At the same time she cautioned him with many angry words against speaking to a black girl he would most likely meet in the wood .
6 The Prince listened to her words meekly , and when she had finished took up the glass axe and set out for the forest .
7 At every step he seemed to sink into the clouds , but fear gave wings to his feet , and he crossed the lake in safety and set to work at once .
8 But no sooner had he struck the first blow with his axe than it broke into a thousand pieces against the tree .
9 The poor youth was so terrified he did not know what to do , for he was in mortal dread of the punishment the wicked old Fairy would inflict on him .
10 He wandered to and fro in the wood , not knowing where he was going , and at last , worn out by fatigue and misery , he sank on the ground and fell fast asleep .
11 He did not know how long he had slept when a sudden sound awoke him , and opening his eyes he saw a black girl standing beside him .
12 Mindful of the Fairy 's warning he did not dare to address her , but she on her part greeted him in the most friendly manner , and asked him at once if he were under the power of the wicked Fairy .
13 The Prince nodded his head silently in answer .
14 Then the black girl told him that she too was in the power of the Fairy , who had doomed her to wander about in her present guise until some youth should take pity on her and bear her in safety to the other side of the river which they saw in the distance , and on the other side of which the Fairy 's domain and power ended .
15 The girl 's words so inspired the Prince with confidence that he told her all his tale of woe , and ended up by asking her advice as to how he was to escape the punishment the Fairy would be sure to inflict on him when she discovered that he had not cut down the trees in the wood and that he had broken her axe .
16 ` You must know , ' answered the black girl , ` that the Fairy in whose power we both are is my own mother , but you must not betray this secret , for it would cost me my life .
17 If you will only promise to try and free me I will stand by you , and will accomplish for you all the tasks which my mother sets you . '
18 The Prince promised joyfully all she asked ; then having once more warned him not to betray her confidence , she handed him a draught to drink which very soon sunk his senses in a deep slumber .
19 His astonishment was great when he awoke to find the glass axe whole and unbroken at his side , and all the trees of the wood lying felled around him !
20 He made all haste across the bridge of clouds , and told the Fairy that her commands were obeyed .
21 She was much amazed when she heard that all the XXXXX was cut down , and saw the axe unbroken in his hand , and since she could not believe that he had done all this by himself , she questioned him narrowly if he had seen or spoken to the black girl .	wood		answer|astonishment|guise|life|secret|silence|step|tree|wood|woods

1 ` Take off your hat , ' the King said to the Hatter .
2 ` It is n't mine , ' said the Hatter .
3 ` Stolen ! '
4 the King exclaimed , turning to the jury , who instantly made a memorandum of the fact . '
5 I keep them to sell , ' the Hatter added as an explanation ; ` I 've none of my own .
6 I 'm a hatter . '
7 Here the Queen put on her spectacles , and began staring at the Hatter , who turned pale and fidgeted .
8 ` Give your evidence , ' said the King ; ` and do n't be nervous , or I 'll have you executed on the spot . '
9 This did not seem to encourage the witness at all : he kept shifting from one foot to the other , looking uneasily at the Queen , and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter .
10 Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation , which puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was : she was beginning to grow larger again , and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court ; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for her . '
11 I wish you would n't squeeze so . '
12 said the Dormouse , who was sitting next to her . '
13 I can hardly breathe . ' '
14 I ca n't help it , ' said Alice very meekly : ` I 'm growing . '
15 ` You 've no right to grow here , ' said the Dormouse .
16 ` Do n't talk nonsense , ' said Alice more boldly : ` you know you 're growing too . '
17 ` Yes , but I grow at a reasonable pace , ' said the Dormouse : ` not in that ridiculous fashion . '
18 And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court .
19 All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter , and , just as the Dormouse crossed the court , she said to one of the officers of the court , ` Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert ! '
20 on which the wretched Hatter trembled so , that he shook both his shoes off .
21 ` Give your XXXXX , ' the King repeated angrily , ` or I 'll have you executed , whether you 're nervous or not . '	evidence		Stolen|evidence|explanation|hat|jury|none|pace|shoes|singers|spot

1 She handed him the little bell , and there disappeared hut and all , as though the earth had swallowed her up .
2 Then it dawned on the Prince that he had been speaking to a good fairy , and putting the little bell carefully in his pocket , he rode home and told his father that he meant to set the daughter of the Flower Queen free , and intended setting out on the following day into the wide world in search of the maid .
3 So the next morning the Prince mounted his fine horse and left his home .
4 He had roamed round the world for a whole year , and his horse had died of exhaustion , while he himself had suffered much from want and misery , but still he had come on no trace of her he was in search of .
5 At last one day he came to a hut , in front of which sat a very old man .
6 The Prince asked him , ` Do you not know where the Dragon lives who keeps the daughter of the Flower Queen prisoner ? '
7 ` No , I do not , ' answered the old man .
8 ` But if you go straight along this road for a year , you will reach a hut where my father lives , and possibly he may be able to tell you . '
9 The Prince thanked him for his information , and continued his journey for a whole year along the same road , and at the end of it came to the little hut , where he found a very old man .
10 He asked him the same question , and the old man answered , ` No , I do not know where the Dragon lives .
11 But go straight along this road for another year , and you will come to a hut in which my father lives .
12 I know he can tell you . '
13 And so the Prince wandered on for another year , always on the same road , and at last reached the hut where he found the third old man .
14 He put the same question to him as he had put to his son and grandson ; but this time the old man answered , ` The Dragon lives up there on the mountain , and he has just begun his year of sleep .
15 For one whole year he is always awake , and the next he sleeps .
16 But if you wish to see the Flower Queen 's daughter go up the second mountain : the Dragon 's old mother lives there , and she has a ball every night , to which the Flower Queen 's daughter goes regularly . '
17 So the Prince went up the second mountain , where he found a castle all made of gold with diamond windows .
18 He opened the big gate leading into the courtyard , and was just going to walk in , when seven dragons rushed on him and asked him what he wanted ?
19 The Prince replied , ' I have heard so much of the beauty and kindness of the Dragon 's Mother , and would like to enter her service . '
20 This flattering speech pleased the dragons , and the eldest of them said , ` Well , you may come with me , and I will take you to the Mother Dragon . '
21 They entered the XXXXX and walked through twelve splendid halls , all made of gold and diamonds .	castle		Flower|castle|courtyard|day|dragons|earth|end|morning|mother|son

1 ` Where else should I be going , ' he said , ` than through the wood ? '
2 ` Through the wood ? '
3 said the old man in amazement .
4 ` It 's easily seen that you have heard nothing of this forest , that you rush so blindly to meet your doom .
5 Well , listen to me before you ride any further ; let me tell you that this wood hides in its depths a countless number of the fiercest tigers , hyenas , wolves , bears , and snakes , and all sorts of other monsters .
6 If I were to cut you and your horse up into tiny morsels and throw them to the beasts , there would n't be one bit for each hundred of them .
7 Take my advice , therefore , and if you wish to save your life follow some other path . '
8 The Prince was rather taken aback by the old man 's words , and considered for a minute what he should do ; then looking at his ring , and perceiving that it sparkled as brightly as ever , he called out : ` If this wood held even more terrible things than it does , I can not help myself , for I must go through it . '
9 Here he spurred his horse and rode on ; but the old beggar screamed so loudly after him that the Prince turned round and rode back to the oak tree . '
10 I am really sorry for you , ' said the beggar , ` but if you are quite determined to brave the dangers of the forest , let me at least give you a piece of advice which will help you against these monsters .
11 ` Take this bagful of bread-crumbs and this live hare .
12 I will make you a present of them both , as I am anxious to save your life ; but you must leave your horse behind you , for it would stumble over the fallen trees or get entangled in the briers and thorns .
13 When you have gone about a hundred yards into the wood the wild beasts will surround you .
14 Then you must instantly seize your bag , and scatter the bread-crumbs among them .
15 They will rush to eat them up greedily , and when you have scattered the last crumb you must lose no time in throwing the hare to them ; as soon as the hare feels itself on the ground it will run away as quickly as possible , and the wild beasts will turn to pursue it .
16 In this way you will be able to get through the wood unhurt . '
17 Iwanich thanked the old man for his counsel , dismounted from his horse , and , taking the bag and the hare in his arms , he entered the forest .
18 He had hardly lost sight of his gaunt grey friend when he heard growls and snarls in the thicket close to him , and before he had time to think he found himself surrounded by the most dreadful-looking creatures .
19 On one side he saw the glittering eye of a cruel tiger , on the other the gleaming teeth of a great she-wolf ; here a huge bear growled fiercely , and there a horrible snake coiled itself in the grass at his feet .
20 But Iwanich did not forget the old man 's advice , and quickly put his hand into the bag and took out as many bread-crumbs as he could hold in his hand at a time .
21 He threw them to the beasts , but soon the XXXXX grew lighter and lighter , and the Prince began to feel a little frightened .	bag		bag|crumb|doom|eye|friend|ground|snake|snakes|things|way

1 They headed for a cliff by the shore -- a cliff that ran down into deep water , and plunged into a dark hole at the foot of it , twenty fathoms under the sea .
2 It was a long , long swim , and Kotick badly wanted fresh air before he was out of the dark tunnel they led him through .
3 `` My wig ! ''
4 he said , when he rose , gasping and puffing , into open water at the farther end .
5 `` It was a long dive , but it was worth it . ''
6 The sea cows had separated and were browsing lazily along the edges of the finest beaches that Kotick had ever seen .
7 There were long stretches of smooth-worn rock running for miles , exactly fitted to make seal-nurseries , and there were play-grounds of hard sand sloping inland behind them , and there were rollers for seals to dance in , and long grass to roll in , and sand dunes to climb up and down , and , best of all , Kotick knew by the feel of the water , which never deceives a true sea catch , that no men had ever come there .
8 The first thing he did was to assure himself that the fishing was good , and then he swam along the beaches and counted up the delightful low sandy islands half hidden in the beautiful rolling fog .
9 Away to the northward , out to sea , ran a line of bars and shoals and rocks that would never let a ship come within six miles of the beach , and between the islands and the mainland was a stretch of deep water that ran up to the perpendicular cliffs , and somewhere below the cliffs was the mouth of the tunnel .
10 `` It 's Novastoshnah over again , but ten times better , '' said Kotick .
11 `` Sea Cow must be wiser than I thought .
12 Men ca n't come down the cliffs , even if there were any men ; and the shoals to seaward would knock a ship to splinters .
13 If any place in the sea is safe , this is it . ''
14 He began to think of the seal he had left behind him , but though he was in a hurry to go back to Novastoshnah , he thoroughly explored the new country , so that he would be able to answer all questions .
15 Then he dived and made sure of the mouth of the tunnel , and raced through to the southward .
16 No one but a sea cow or a seal would have dreamed of there being such a place , and when he looked back at the cliffs even Kotick could hardly believe that he had been under them .
17 He was six days going home , though he was not swimming slowly ; and when he hauled out just above Sea Lion 's Neck the first person he met was the seal who had been waiting for him , and she saw by the look in his eyes that he had found his island at last .
18 But the holluschickie and Sea Catch , his father , and all the other seals laughed at him when he told them what he had discovered , and a young seal about his own age said , `` This is all very well , Kotick , but you ca n't come from no one knows where and order us off like this .
19 Remember we 've been fighting for our nurseries , and that 's a thing you never did .
20 You preferred prowling about in the sea . ''
21 The other XXXXX laughed at this , and the young seal began twisting his head from side to side .	seals		cliff|fathoms|fishing|hole|hurry|one|questions|seals|southward|stretches

1 Mr. Cropper 's voice expressed bland surprise .
2 `` That is strange .
3 As a rule I do not think Alfred and Robert have been troublesome to their teachers .
4 What have they been doing now ? ''
5 `` They refuse to obey my orders , '' said Esther faintly .
6 `` Ah , well , Miss Maxwell , perhaps you will pardon my saying that a teacher should be able to enforce her orders .
7 My boys are high-spirited fellows and need a strong , firm hand to restrain them .
8 I have always said I considered it advisable to employ a male teacher in Maitland school .
9 We should have better order .
10 Not that I disapprove of you personally -- far from it .
11 I should be glad to see you succeed .
12 But I have heard many complaints regarding the order in school at present . ''
13 `` I had no trouble until your boys came , '' retorted Esther , losing her temper a little , `` and I believe that if you were willing to co-operate with me that I could govern them . ''
14 `` Well , you see , '' said Mr. Cropper easily , `` when I send my boys to school I naturally expect that the teacher will be capable of doing the work she has been hired to do . ''
15 `` Then you refuse to help me ? ''
16 said Esther in a trembling voice .
17 `` Why , my dear young lady , what can I do ?
18 Boys soon know when they can disobey a teacher with impunity .
19 No doubt you will be able to secure a school easier to control and will do good work .
20 But here , as I have already said , we need a firm hand at the helm .
21 But you are not going yet , XXXXX Maxwell ?	Miss		Miss|Mr.|doubt|fellows|hand|order|school|trouble|voice|work

1 On and on they travelled , looking always to right and left for traces of the Princess , following up every track , making inquiries of every cat and dog they met , listening to the talk of every wayfarer they passed ; and at last they heard that the kingdom at the utmost ends of the earth where the twelve youths had borne the Princess was not very far off .
2 And at last one day they reached that distant kingdom , and , going at once to the palace , they began to make friends with all the dogs and cats in the place , and to question them about the Princess and the magic ring ; but no one could tell them much about either .
3 Now one day it chanced that Waska had gone down to the palace cellar to hunt for mice and rats , and seeing an especially fat , well-fed mouse , she pounced upon it , buried her claws in its soft fur , and was just going to gobble it up , when she was stopped by the pleading tones of the little creature , saying , ` If you will only spare my life I may be of great service to you .
4 I will do everything in my power for you ; for I am the King of the Mice , and if I perish the whole race will die out . '
5 ` So be it , ' said Waska . '
6 I will spare your life ; but in return you must do something for me .
7 In this castle there lives a Princess , the wicked wife of my dear master .
8 She has stolen away his magic ring .
9 You must get it away from her at whatever cost ; do you hear ?
10 Till you have done this I wo n't take my claws out of your fur . '
11 ` Good ! '
12 replied the mouse ; ' I will do what you ask . '
13 And , so saying , he summoned all the mice in his kingdom together .
14 A countless number of mice , small and big , brown and grey , assembled , and formed a circle round their king , who was a prisoner under Waska 's claws .
15 Turning to them he said : ` Dear and faithful subjects , who ever among you will steal the magic ring from the strange Princess will release me from a cruel death ; and I shall honour him above all the other mice in the kingdom . '
16 Instantly a tiny mouse stepped forward and said : ' I often creep about the Princess 's bedroom at night , and I have noticed that she has a ring which she treasures as the apple of her eye .
17 All day she wears it on her finger , and at night she keeps it in her mouth .
18 I will undertake , sire , to steal away the ring for you . '
19 And the tiny mouse tripped away into the bedroom of the Princess , and waited for nightfall ; then , when the Princess had fallen asleep , it crept up on to her bed , and gnawed a hole in the pillow , through which it dragged one by one little down feathers , and threw them under the Princess 's nose .
20 And the fluff flew into the Princess 's nose , and into her mouth , and starting up she sneezed and coughed , and the ring fell out of her mouth on to the coverlet .
21 In a flash the tiny mouse had seized it , and brought it to Waska as a ransom for the King of the XXXXX .	Mice		Dear|Mice|cat|hole|life|mouth|ring|traces|wife|youths

1 The jungle is shut indeed to thee henceforward .
2 Let them fall , Mowgli .
3 They are only tears . ''
4 So Mowgli sat and cried as though his heart would break ; and he had never cried in all his life before .
5 `` Now , '' he said , `` I will go to men .
6 But first I must say farewell to my mother . ''
7 And he went to the cave where she lived with Father Wolf , and he cried on her coat , while the four cubs howled miserably .
8 `` Ye will not forget me ? ''
9 said Mowgli .
10 `` Never while we can follow a trail , '' said the cubs .
11 `` Come to the foot of the hill when thou art a man , and we will talk to thee ; and we will come into the croplands to play with thee by night . ''
12 `` Come soon ! ''
13 said Father Wolf .
14 `` Oh , wise little frog , come again soon ; for we be old , thy mother and I. '' `` Come soon , '' said Mother Wolf , `` little naked son of mine .
15 For , listen , child of man , I loved thee more than ever I loved my cubs . ''
16 `` I will surely come , '' said Mowgli .
17 `` And when I come it will be to lay out Shere Khan 's hide upon the Council Rock .
18 Do not forget me !
19 Tell them in the jungle never to forget me ! ''
20 The dawn was beginning to break when Mowgli went down the hillside alone , to meet those mysterious things that are called men .
21 Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack As the XXXXX was breaking the Sambhur belled Once , twice and again !	dawn		I.|cave|coat|cubs|dawn|farewell|heart|jungle|man|mother

1 Go in quietly , and remember that the big man who killed Karait is the first one to bite .
2 Then come out and tell me , and we will hunt for Rikki-tikki together . ''
3 `` But are you sure that there is anything to be gained by killing the people ? ''
4 said Nag .
5 `` Everything .
6 When there were no people in the bungalow , did we have any mongoose in the garden ?
7 So long as the bungalow is empty , we are king and queen of the garden ; and remember that as soon as our eggs in the melon bed hatch -LRB- as they may tomorrow -RRB- , our children will need room and quiet . ''
8 `` I had not thought of that , '' said Nag .
9 `` I will go , but there is no need that we should hunt for Rikki-tikki afterward .
10 I will kill the big man and his wife , and the child if I can , and come away quietly .
11 Then the bungalow will be empty , and Rikki-tikki will go . ''
12 Rikki-tikki tingled all over with rage and hatred at this , and then Nag 's head came through the sluice , and his five feet of cold body followed it .
13 Angry as he was , Rikki-tikki was very frightened as he saw the size of the big cobra .
14 Nag coiled himself up , raised his head , and looked into the bathroom in the dark , and Rikki could see his eyes glitter .
15 `` Now , if I kill him here , Nagaina will know ; and if I fight him on the open floor , the odds are in his favor .
16 What am I to do ? ''
17 said Rikki-tikki-tavi .
18 Nag waved to and fro , and then Rikki-tikki heard him drinking from the biggest water-jar that was used to fill the bath .
19 `` That is good , '' said the snake .
20 `` Now , when Karait was killed , the big man had a stick .
21 He may have that XXXXX still , but when he comes in to bathe in the morning he will not have a stick .	stick		anything|bath|bathroom|drinking|eggs|feet|garden|odds|queen|stick

1 The Hazel-nut child fastened the diamond firmly under the stork 's neck with a ribbon , and when he saw that the other storks were getting ready for their northern flight , he untied the silk cord from his stork 's wings , and away they went , getting nearer home every minute .
2 At length the Hazel-nut child came to his native village ; then he undid the ribbon from the stork 's neck and the diamond fell to the ground ; he covered it first with sand and stones , and then ran to get his parents , so that they might carry the treasure home , for he himself was not able to lift the great diamond .
3 So the Hazel-nut child and his parents lived in happiness and prosperity after this till they died .
4 THE STORY OF BIG KLAUS AND LITTLE KLAUS In a certain village there lived two people who had both the same name .
5 Both were called Klaus , but one owned four horses and the other only one .
6 In order to distinguish the one from the other , the one who had four horses was called Big Klaus , and the one who had only one horse , Little Klaus .
7 Now you shall hear what befell them both , for this is a true story .
8 The whole week through Little Klaus had to plough for Big Klaus , and lend him his one horse ; then Big Klaus lent him his four horses , but only once a week , and that was on Sunday .
9 Hurrah !
10 how loudly Little Klaus cracked his whip over all the five horses !
11 for they were indeed as good as his on this one day .
12 The sun shone brightly , and all the bells in the church-towers were pealing ; the people were dressed in their best clothes , and were going to church , with their hymn books under their arms , to hear the minister preach .
13 They saw Little Klaus ploughing with the five horses ; but he was so happy that he kept on cracking his whip , and calling out ` Gee-up , my five horses ! '
14 ` You must n't say that , ' said Big Klaus .
15 ` Only one horse is yours . '
16 But as soon as someone else was going by Little Klaus forgot that he must not say it , and called out ` Gee-up , my five horses ! '
17 ` Now you had better stop that , ' said Big Klaus , ` for if you say it once more I will give your horse such a crack on the head that it will drop down dead on the spot ! ' '
18 I really wo n't say it again ! '
19 said Little Klaus .
20 But as soon as more people passed by , and nodded him good-morning , he became so happy in thinking how well it looked to have five horses ploughing his field that , cracking his whip , he called out ` Gee-up , my five horses ! '
21 ` I 'll see to your XXXXX ! '	horses		Big|diamond|field|head|horses|neck|order|ribbon|someone|stones

1 ` But who is to give the prizes ? '
2 quite a chorus of voices asked .
3 ` Why , SHE , of course , ' said the Dodo , pointing to Alice with one finger ; and the whole party at once crowded round her , calling out in a confused way , ` Prizes !
4 Prizes ! '
5 Alice had no idea what to do , and in despair she put her hand in her pocket , and pulled out a box of comfits , -LRB- luckily the salt water had not got into it -RRB- , and handed them round as prizes .
6 There was exactly one a-piece all round .
7 ` But she must have a prize herself , you know , ' said the Mouse .
8 ` Of course , ' the Dodo replied very gravely .
9 ` What else have you got in your pocket ? '
10 he went on , turning to Alice .
11 ` Only a thimble , ' said Alice sadly .
12 ` Hand it over here , ' said the Dodo .
13 Then they all crowded round her once more , while the Dodo solemnly presented the thimble , saying ` We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble ' ; and , when it had finished this short speech , they all cheered .
14 Alice thought the whole thing very absurd , but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh ; and , as she could not think of anything to say , she simply bowed , and took the thimble , looking as solemn as she could .
15 The next thing was to eat the comfits : this caused some noise and confusion , as the large birds complained that they could not taste theirs , and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back .
16 However , it was over at last , and they sat down again in a ring , and begged the Mouse to tell them something more .
17 ` You promised to tell me your history , you know , ' said Alice , ` and why it is you hate -- C and D , ' she added in a whisper , half afraid that it would be offended again .
18 ` Mine is a long and a sad tale ! '
19 said the Mouse , turning to Alice , and sighing .
20 ` It IS a long tail , certainly , ' said Alice , looking down with wonder at the Mouse 's tail ; ` but why do you call it sad ? '
21 And she kept on puzzling about it while the XXXXX was speaking , so that her idea of the tale was something like this : -- ` Fury said to a mouse , That he met in the house , `` Let us both go to law : I will prosecute YOU .	Mouse		C|Mouse|birds|box|despair|finger|laugh|pocket|thimble|thing

1 yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice .
2 ` Back to land again , and that 's all the first figure , ' said the Mock Turtle , suddenly dropping his voice ; and the two creatures , who had been jumping about like mad things all this time , sat down again very sadly and quietly , and looked at Alice .
3 ` It must be a very pretty dance , ' said Alice timidly .
4 ` Would you like to see a little of it ? '
5 said the Mock Turtle .
6 ` Very much indeed , ' said Alice .
7 ` Come , let 's try the first figure ! '
8 said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon .
9 ` We can do without lobsters , you know .
10 Which shall sing ? '
11 ` Oh , YOU sing , ' said the Gryphon .
12 ` I 've forgotten the words . '
13 So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice , every now and then treading on her toes when they passed too close , and waving their forepaws to mark the time , while the Mock Turtle sang this , very slowly and sadly : -- ' `` Will you walk a little faster ? ''
14 said a whiting to a snail .
15 `` There 's a porpoise close behind us , and he 's treading on my tail .
16 See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance !
17 They are waiting on the shingle -- will you come and join the dance ?
18 Will you , wo n't you , will you , wo n't you , will you join the dance ?
19 Will you , wo n't you , will you , wo n't you , wo n't you join the dance ?
20 `` You can really have no notion how delightful it will be When they take us up and throw us , with the lobsters , out to sea ! ''
21 But the XXXXX replied `` Too far , too far ! ''	snail		advance|dance|forepaws|notion|round|snail|tail|top|turtles|voice

1 And he called his First Lord to him .
2 He was so proud that if anyone of lower rank than his own ventured to speak to him or ask him anything , he would say nothing but ` P ! '
3 and that does not mean anything .
4 ` Here is a most remarkable bird which is called a Nightingale ! '
5 said the Emperor .
6 ` They say it is the most glorious thing in my kingdom .
7 Why has no one ever said anything to me about it ? ' '
8 I have never before heard it mentioned ! '
9 said the First Lord . '
10 I will look for it and find it ! '
11 But where was it to be found ?
12 The First Lord ran up and down stairs , through the halls and corridors ; but none of those he met had ever heard of the Nightingale .
13 And the First Lord ran again to the Emperor , and told him that it must be an invention on the part of those who had written the books .
14 ` Your Imperial Majesty can not really believe all that is written !
15 There are some inventions called the Black Art ! '
16 ` But the book in which I read this , ' said the Emperor , ` is sent me by His Great Majesty the Emperor of Japan ; so it can not be untrue , and I will hear the Nightingale !
17 She must be here this evening !
18 She has my gracious permission to appear , and if she does not , the whole Court shall be trampled under foot after supper ! '
19 ` Tsing pe ! '
20 said the First Lord ; and he ran up and down stairs , through the halls and corridors , and half the Court ran with him , for they did not want to be trampled under foot .
21 Everyone was asking after the wonderful XXXXX which all the world knew of , except those at Court .	Nightingale		Nightingale|P|anyone|anything|book|books|evening|foot|part|permission

1 With these words she put the ring upon her left thumb , lifted the young man with one hand , and walked away with him under her arm .
2 This time she did not take him to a splendid palace , but to a deep cave in a rock , where there were chains hanging from the wall .
3 The maiden now chained the young man 's hands and feet so that he could not escape ; then she said in an angry voice , ` Here you shall remain chained up until you die .
4 I will bring you every day enough food to prevent you dying of hunger , but you need never hope for freedom any more . '
5 With these words she left him .
6 The old King and his daughter waited anxiously for many weeks for the Prince 's return , but no news of him arrived .
7 The King 's daughter often dreamed that her husband was going through some great suffering : she therefore begged her father to summon all the enchanters and magicians , that they might try to find out where the Prince was and how he could be set free .
8 But the magicians , with all their arts , could find out nothing , except that he was still living and undergoing great suffering ; but none could tell where he was to be found .
9 At last a celebrated magician from Finland was brought before the King , who had found out that the King 's son-in-law was imprisoned in the East , not by men , but by some more powerful being .
10 The King now sent messengers to the East to look for his son-in-law , and they by good luck met with the old magician who had interpreted the signs on King Solomon 's ring , and thus was possessed of more wisdom than anyone else in the world .
11 The magician soon found out what he wished to know , and pointed out the place where the Prince was imprisoned , but said : ` He is kept there by enchantment , and can not be set free without my help .
12 I will therefore go with you myself . '
13 So they all set out , guided by birds , and after some days came to the cave where the unfortunate Prince had been chained up for nearly seven years .
14 He recognised the magician immediately , but the old man did not know him , he had grown so thin .
15 However , he undid the chains by the help of magic , and took care of the Prince until he recovered and became strong enough to travel .
16 When he reached home he found that the old King had died that morning , so that he was now raised to the throne .
17 And now after his long suffering came prosperity , which lasted to the end of his life ; but he never got back the magic ring , nor has it ever again been seen by mortal eyes .
18 Now , if YOU had been the Prince , would you not rather have stayed with the pretty witch-maiden ?
19 STORY OF THE EMPEROR 'S NEW CLOTHES -LRB- 4 -RRB- -LRB- 4 -RRB- Andersen .
20 Many years ago there lived an Emperor who was so fond of new clothes that he spent all his money on them in order to be beautifully dressed .
21 He did not care about his soldiers , he did not care about the theatre ; he only liked to go out walking to show off his new XXXXX .	clothes		arts|chains|clothes|enchantment|hand|hands|husband|maiden|order|return

1 So he sent him royal robes and costly jewels , and commanded him to come to the palace to be married to the Princess .
2 And his son-in-law put on the royal robes , and he looked so grand and stately that it was impossible to recognise the poor Simpleton , so changed was he ; and the Princess fell in love with him as soon as ever she saw him .
3 Never before had so grand a wedding been seen , and there was so much food and wine that even the glutton and the thirsty comrade had enough to eat and drink .
4 THE SNOW-DAUGHTER AND THE FIRE-SON -LRB- 25 -RRB- -LRB- 25 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer Tales and Legends .
5 Von Wliolocki .
6 There was once upon a time a man and his wife , and they had no children , which was a great grief to them .
7 One winter 's day , when the sun was shining brightly , the couple were standing outside their cottage , and the woman was looking at all the little icicles which hung from the roof .
8 She sighed , and turning to her husband said , ' I wish I had as many children as there are icicles hanging there . '
9 ` Nothing would please me more either , ' replied her husband .
10 Then a tiny icicle detached itself from the roof , and dropped into the woman 's mouth , who swallowed it with a smile , and said , ` Perhaps I shall give birth to a snow child now ! '
11 Her husband laughed at his wife 's strange idea , and they went back into the house .
12 But after a short time the woman gave birth to a little girl , who was as white as snow and as cold as ice .
13 If they brought the child anywhere near the fire , it screamed loudly till they put it back into some cool place .
14 The little maid throve wonderfully , and in a few months she could run about and speak .
15 But she was not altogether easy to bring up , and gave her parents much trouble and anxiety , for all summer she insisted on spending in the cellar , and in the winter she would sleep outside in the snow , and the colder it was the happier she seemed to be .
16 Her father and mother called her simply ` Our Snow-daughter , ' and this name stuck to her all her life .
17 One day her parents sat by the fire , talking over the extraordinary behaviour of their daughter , who was disporting herself in the snowstorm that raged outside .
18 The woman sighed deeply and said , ' I wish I had given birth to a Fire-son ! '
19 As she said these words , a spark from the big wood fire flew into the woman 's lap , and she said with a laugh , ` Now perhaps I shall give birth to a Fire-son ! '
20 The man laughed at his wife 's words , and thought it was a good joke .
21 But he ceased to think it a XXXXX when his wife shortly afterwards gave birth to a boy , who screamed lustily till he was put quite close to the fire , and who nearly yelled himself into a fit if the Snow-daughter came anywhere near him .	joke		comrade|house|joke|love|man|mouth|robes|son-in-law|sun|wine

1 Telford was vainly seeking to nip Galletly 's gossip in the bud .
2 The name of Palmer conveyed no especial meaning to his ear .
3 He knew where the Palmer homestead was , and that the plaintive-faced , fair-haired woman , whose name was Mrs. Fuller and who came to church occasionally , lived there .
4 His knowledge went no further .
5 He had called three times and found nobody at home -- at least , to all appearances .
6 Now he was fated to have the whole budget of some vulgar quarrel forced on him by Galletly .
7 `` No ?
8 Everyone 's talkin ' of it .
9 The long and short of it is that Min Palmer has had a regular up-and-down row with Rose Fuller and turned her and her little gal out of doors .
10 I believe the two women had an awful time .
11 Min 's a Tartar when her temper 's up -- and that 's pretty often .
12 Nobody knows how Rose managed to put up with her so long .
13 But she has had to go at last .
14 Goodness knows what the poor critter 'll do .
15 She has n't a cent nor a relation -- she was just an orphan girl that Palmer brought up .
16 She is at Rawlingses now .
17 Maybe when Min cools off , she 'll let her go back but it 's doubtful .
18 Min hates her like p ` isen . ''
19 To Telford this was all very unintelligible .
20 But he understood that Mrs. Fuller was in trouble of some kind and that it was his duty to help her if possible , although he had an odd and unaccountable aversion to the woman , for which he had often reproached himself .
21 `` Who is this XXXXX you call Min Palmer ? ''	woman		Everyone|aversion|church|critter|duty|homestead|kind|row|time|woman

1 `` Wolf !
2 Wolf 's cub !
3 Go away ! ''
4 shouted the priest , waving a sprig of the sacred tulsi plant .
5 `` Again ?
6 Last time it was because I was a man .
7 This time it is because I am a wolf .
8 Let us go , Akela . ''
9 A woman -- it was Messua -- ran across to the herd , and cried : `` Oh , my son , my son !
10 They say thou art a sorcerer who can turn himself into a beast at will .
11 I do not believe , but go away or they will kill thee .
12 Buldeo says thou art a wizard , but I know thou hast avenged Nathoo 's death . ''
13 `` Come back , Messua ! ''
14 shouted the crowd .
15 `` Come back , or we will stone thee . ''
16 Mowgli laughed a little short ugly laugh , for a stone had hit him in the mouth .
17 `` Run back , Messua .
18 This is one of the foolish tales they tell under the big tree at dusk .
19 I have at least paid for thy son 's life .
20 Farewell ; and run quickly , for I shall send the herd in more swiftly than their brickbats .
21 I am no XXXXX , Messua .	wizard		Farewell|death|herd|laugh|life|man|plant|tales|wizard|woman

1 Is he married ? ''
2 `` I -- I do n't know , '' said Aunt Beatrice faintly .
3 `` I have never heard that he was . ''
4 `` There , you 've run the needle into your finger , '' said Margaret sympathetically .
5 `` It 's of no consequence , '' said Aunt Beatrice hastily .
6 She wiped away the drop of blood and went on with her work .
7 Margaret watched her dreamily .
8 What lovely hair Aunt Beatrice had !
9 It was so thick and glossy , with warm bronze tones where the lamp-light fell on it under that hideous weird old shade .
10 But Aunt Beatrice wore it in such an unbecoming way .
11 Margaret idly wondered if she would comb her hair straight back and prim when she was thirty-five .
12 She thought it very probable if that letter did not come tomorrow .
13 From Aunt Beatrice 's hair Margaret 's eyes fell to Aunt Beatrice 's face .
14 She gave a little jump .
15 Had Aunt Beatrice been crying ?
16 Margaret sat bolt upright .
17 `` Aunt Beatrice , did you want to go to that party ? ''
18 she demanded explosively .
19 `` Now tell me the truth . ''
20 `` I did , '' said Aunt Beatrice weakly .
21 Margaret 's sudden attack fairly startled the XXXXX out of her .	truth		Aunt|consequence|finger|hair|letter|needle|party|tomorrow|truth|way

1 ` Not QUITE right , I 'm afraid , ' said Alice , timidly ; ` some of the words have got altered . '
2 ` It is wrong from beginning to end , ' said the Caterpillar decidedly , and there was silence for some minutes .
3 The Caterpillar was the first to speak .
4 ` What size do you want to be ? '
5 it asked .
6 ` Oh , I 'm not particular as to size , ' Alice hastily replied ; ` only one does n't like changing so often , you know . ' '
7 I DO N'T know , ' said the Caterpillar .
8 Alice said nothing : she had never been so much contradicted in her life before , and she felt that she was losing her temper .
9 ` Are you content now ? '
10 said the Caterpillar .
11 ` Well , I should like to be a LITTLE larger , sir , if you would n't mind , ' said Alice : ` three inches is such a wretched height to be . '
12 ` It is a very good height indeed ! '
13 said the Caterpillar angrily , rearing itself upright as it spoke -LRB- it was exactly three inches high -RRB- .
14 ` But I 'm not used to it ! '
15 pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone .
16 And she thought of herself , ' I wish the creatures would n't be so easily offended ! '
17 ` You 'll get used to it in time , ' said the Caterpillar ; and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again .
18 This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again .
19 In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice , and shook itself .
20 Then it got down off the mushroom , and crawled away in the grass , merely remarking as it went , ` One side will make you grow taller , and the other side will make you grow shorter . '
21 ` One XXXXX of WHAT ?	side		grass|life|mouth|nothing|side|silence|sir|time|tone|words

1 The Amir had brought with him for a bodyguard eight hundred men and horses who had never seen a camp or a locomotive before in their lives -- savage men and savage horses from somewhere at the back of Central Asia .
2 Every night a mob of these horses would be sure to break their heel ropes and stampede up and down the camp through the mud in the dark , or the camels would break loose and run about and fall over the ropes of the tents , and you can imagine how pleasant that was for men trying to go to sleep .
3 My tent lay far away from the camel lines , and I thought it was safe .
4 But one night a man popped his head in and shouted , `` Get out , quick !
5 They 're coming !
6 My tent 's gone ! ''
7 I knew who `` they '' were , so I put on my boots and waterproof and scuttled out into the slush .
8 Little Vixen , my fox terrier , went out through the other side ; and then there was a roaring and a grunting and bubbling , and I saw the tent cave in , as the pole snapped , and begin to dance about like a mad ghost .
9 A camel had blundered into it , and wet and angry as I was , I could not help laughing .
10 Then I ran on , because I did not know how many camels might have got loose , and before long I was out of sight of the camp , plowing my way through the mud .
11 At last I fell over the tail-end of a gun , and by that knew I was somewhere near the artillery lines where the cannon were stacked at night .
12 As I did not want to plowter about any more in the drizzle and the dark , I put my waterproof over the muzzle of one gun , and made a sort of wigwam with two or three rammers that I found , and lay along the tail of another gun , wondering where Vixen had got to , and where I might be .
13 Just as I was getting ready to go to sleep I heard a jingle of harness and a grunt , and a mule passed me shaking his wet ears .
14 He belonged to a screw-gun battery , for I could hear the rattle of the straps and rings and chains and things on his saddle pad .
15 The screw-guns are tiny little cannon made in two pieces , that are screwed together when the time comes to use them .
16 They are taken up mountains , anywhere that a mule can find a road , and they are very useful for fighting in rocky country .
17 Behind the mule there was a camel , with his big soft feet squelching and slipping in the mud , and his neck bobbing to and fro like a strayed hen 's .
18 Luckily , I knew enough of beast language -- not wild-beast language , but camp-beast language , of course -- from the natives to know what he was saying .
19 He must have been the one that flopped into my tent , for he called to the mule , `` What shall I do ?
20 Where shall I go ?
21 I have fought with a white thing that waved , and it took a stick and hit me on the XXXXX . ''	neck		battery|boots|camels|locomotive|men|mule|neck|rings|sort|waterproof

1 `` Do you two young pirates and freebooters want to know what has become of your kite ? ''
2 he said .
3 Then he sat down beside us on the rocks at the Mermaid 's Pool and told us the whole story , and read his letter to us .
4 It was the most amazing thing .
5 It seems Father had had relations after all -- a brother and a sister in particular .
6 But when he was a young man he quarrelled with his brother , who did n't treat him very well -- but he 's been dead for years , so I wo n't say a word against him -- and had gone away from home .
7 He never went back , and he never even let them know he was living .
8 Father says that this was very wrong of him , and I suppose it was , since he says so ; but I do n't see how Father could do anything wrong .
9 Anyway , he had a sister Esther whom he loved very much ; but he felt bitter against her too , because he thought she took his brother 's part too much .
10 So , though a letter of hers , asking him to go back , did reach him , he never answered it , and he never heard anything more .
11 Years afterward he felt sorry and went back , but his brother was dead and his sister had gone away , and he could n't find out a single thing about her .
12 So much for that ; and now about the kite .
13 The letter Father had just received was from his sister , our Aunt Esther and the mother of Dick and Mimi .
14 She was living at a place hundreds of miles inland .
15 Her husband was dead and , as we found out later , although she did not say a word about it in the letter , she was very poor .
16 One day when Dick and Mimi were out in the woods looking for botany specimens they saw something funny in the top of a tree .
17 Dick climbed up and got it .
18 It was a big red kite with a patch on each side and names written on it .
19 They carried it home to their mother .
20 Dick has since told us that she turned as pale as the dead when she saw our names on it .
21 You see , Philippa was her XXXXX 's name and Claude was her father 's .	mother		Aunt|brother|freebooters|husband|kite|mother|names|patch|relations|side

1 The King , much moved , said , ` Adorable Princess , dry your tears .
2 I implore you .
3 My only wish is to make you the happiest person in the world . '
4 ` If you speak truth , my lord , ' replied the Princess , ` restore to me the liberty you have deprived me of .
5 Otherwise I can only look on you as my worst enemy . '
6 The King retorted that her opposition filled him with despair , but that he hoped to carry her to a place where all around would respect her , and where every pleasure would surround her .
7 So saying , he seized her once more , and in spite of all her cries he rapidly bore her off to the neighbourhood of his capital .
8 Here he gently placed her on a lawn , and as he did so she saw a magnificent palace spring up at her feet .
9 The architecture was imposing , and in the interior the rooms were handsome and furnished in the best possible taste .
10 The Princess , who expected to be quite alone , was pleased at finding herself surrounded by a number of pretty girls , all anxious to wait on her , whilst a brilliantly-coloured parrot said the most agreeable things in the world .
11 On arriving at this palace the King had resumed his own form , and though no longer young , he might well have pleased any other than this Princess , who had been so prejudiced against him by his violence that she could only regard him with feelings of hatred , which she was at no pains to conceal .
12 The King hoped , however , that time might not only soften her anger , but accustom her to his sight .
13 He took the precaution of surrounding the palace with a dense cloud , and then hastened to his Court , where his prolonged absence was causing much anxiety .
14 The Prince and all the courtiers were delighted to see their beloved King again , but they had to submit themselves to more frequent absences than ever on his part .
15 He made business a pretext for shutting himself up in his study , but it was really in order to spend the time with the Princess , who remained inflexible .
16 Not being able to imagine what could be the cause of so much obstinacy the King began to fear , lest , in spite of all his precautions , she might have heard of the charms of the Prince his son , whose goodness , youth and beauty , made him adored at Court .
17 This idea made him horribly uneasy , and he resolved to remove the cause of his fears by sending the Prince on his travels escorted by a magnificent retinue .
18 The Prince , after visiting several Courts , arrived at the one where the lost Princess was still deeply mourned .
19 The King and Queen received him most graciously , and some festivities were revived to do him honour .
20 One day when the Prince was visiting the Queen in her own apartments he was much struck by a most beautiful portrait .
21 He eagerly inquired whose it was , and the Queen , with many XXXXX , told him it was all that was left her of her beloved daughter , who had suddenly been carried off , she knew neither where nor how .	tears		Court|absences|anxiety|apartments|cloud|fears|interior|portrait|sight|tears

1 The Queen consented with many tears , and the King at once bade his son set forth in search of the Tree of the Sun , from which he was to pluck a golden apple .
2 The Prince was delighted at the prospect , and set out on his travels that very day .
3 For a long time he wandered all through the world , and it was not till the ninety-ninth day after he started that he found an old man who was able to tell him where the Tree of the Sun grew .
4 He followed his directions , and rode on his way , and after another ninety-nine days he arrived at a golden castle , which stood in the middle of a vast wilderness .
5 He knocked at the door , which was opened noiselessly and by invisible hands .
6 Finding no one about , the Prince rode on , and came to a great meadow , where the Sun-Tree grew .
7 When he reached the tree he put out his hand to pick a golden apple ; but all of a sudden the tree grew higher , so that he could not reach its fruit .
8 Then he heard some one behind him laughing .
9 Turning round , he saw the girl in red walking towards him , who addressed him in these words : ` Do you really imagine , brave son of the earth , that you can pluck an apple so easily from the Tree of the Sun ?
10 Before you can do that , you have a difficult task before you .
11 You must guard the tree for nine days and nine nights from the ravages of two wild black wolves , who will try to harm it .
12 Do you think you can undertake this ? '
13 ` Yes , ' answered the Sun-Hero , ' I will guard the Tree of the Sun nine days and nine nights . '
14 Then the girl continued : ` Remember , though , if you do not succeed the Sun will kill you .
15 Now begin your watch . '
16 With these words the Red Girl went back into the golden castle .
17 She had hardly left him when the two black wolves appeared : but the Sun-Hero beat them off with his sword , and they retired , only , however , to reappear in a very short time .
18 The Sun-Hero chased them away once more , but he had hardly sat down to rest when the two black wolves were on the scene again .
19 This went on for seven days and nights , when the white horse , who had never done such a thing before , turned to the Sun-Hero and said in a human voice : ` Listen to what I am going to say .
20 A Fairy gave me to your mother in order that I might be of service to you ; so let me tell you , that if you go to sleep and let the wolves harm the tree , the Sun will surely kill you .
21 The Fairy , foreseeing this , put everyone in the XXXXX under a spell , which prevents their obeying the Sun 's command to take your life .	world		Girl|horse|meadow|scene|sword|thing|tree|watch|way|world

1 I must fly away to warmer lands : will you come with me ?
2 You can sit on my back , and we will fly far away from the ugly mole and his dark house , over the mountains , to the warm countries where the sun shines more brightly than here , where it is always summer , and there are always beautiful flowers .
3 Do come with me , dear little Thumbelina , who saved my life when I lay frozen in the dark tunnel ! '
4 ` Yes , I will go with you , ' said Thumbelina , and got on the swallow 's back , with her feet on one of his outstretched wings .
5 Up he flew into the air , over woods and seas , over the great mountains where the snow is always lying .
6 And if she was cold she crept under his warm feathers , only keeping her little head out to admire all the beautiful things in the world beneath .
7 At last they came to warm lands ; there the sun was brighter , the sky seemed twice as high , and in the hedges hung the finest green and purple grapes ; in the woods grew oranges and lemons : the air was scented with myrtle and mint , and on the roads were pretty little children running about and playing with great gorgeous butterflies .
8 But the swallow flew on farther , and it became more and more beautiful .
9 Under the most splendid green trees besides a blue lake stood a glittering white-marble castle .
10 Vines hung about the high pillars ; there were many swallows ' nests , and in one of these lived the swallow who was carrying Thumbelina .
11 ` Here is my house ! '
12 said he .
13 ` But it wo n't do for you to live with me ; I am not tidy enough to please you .
14 Find a home for yourself in one of the lovely flowers that grow down there ; now I will set you down , and you can do whatever you like . '
15 ` That will be splendid ! '
16 said she , clapping her little hands .
17 There lay a great white marble column which had fallen to the ground and broken into three pieces , but between these grew the most beautiful white flowers .
18 The swallow flew down with Thumbelina , and set her upon one of the broad leaves .
19 But there , to her astonishment , she found a tiny little man sitting in the middle of the flower , as white and transparent as if he were made of glass ; he had the prettiest golden crown on his head , and the most beautiful wings on his shoulders ; he himself was no bigger than Thumbelina .
20 He was the spirit of the flower .
21 In each blossom there dwelt a tiny XXXXX or woman ; but this one was the King over the others .	man		Vines|castle|feathers|hedges|home|leaves|man|mountains|nests|snow

1 Then strike it off also , and so go on till you have cut off all his seven heads . '
2 The old Abbess then gave the Prince her blessing , and he set out upon his enterprise , arrived at the Serpent 's castle by following the secret passage which she had shown him , and by carefully attending to all her directions he happily succeeded in killing the monster .
3 As soon as the wild beasts heard of their king 's death , they all hastened to the castle , but the youth had long since mounted his horse and was already far out of their reach .
4 They pursued him as fast as they could , but they found it impossible to overtake him , and he reached home in safety .
5 Thus he freed his country from this terrible oppression .
6 THE GRATEFUL BEASTS -LRB- 11 -RRB- -LRB- 11 -RRB- From the Hungarian .
7 Kletke .
8 There was once upon a time a man and woman who had three fine-looking sons , but they were so poor that they had hardly enough food for themselves , let alone their children .
9 So the sons determined to set out into the world and to try their luck .
10 Before starting their mother gave them each a loaf of bread and her blessing , and having taken a tender farewell of her and their father the three set forth on their travels .
11 The youngest of the three brothers , whose name was Ferko , was a beautiful youth , with a splendid figure , blue eyes , fair hair , and a complexion like milk and roses .
12 His two brothers were as jealous of him as they could be , for they thought that with his good looks he would be sure to be more fortunate than they would ever be .
13 One day all the three were sitting resting under a tree , for the sun was hot and they were tired of walking .
14 Ferko fell fast asleep , but the other two remained awake , and the eldest said to the second brother , ` What do you say to doing our brother Ferko some harm ?
15 He is so beautiful that everyone takes a fancy to him , which is more than they do to us .
16 If we could only get him out of the way we might succeed better . ' '
17 I quite agree with you , ' answered the second brother , ` and my advice is to eat up his loaf of bread , and then to refuse to give him a bit of ours until he has promised to let us put out his eyes or break his legs . '
18 His eldest brother was delighted with this proposal , and the two wicked wretches seized Ferko 's loaf and ate it all up , while the poor boy was still asleep .
19 When he did awake he felt very hungry and turned to eat his bread , but his brothers cried out , ` You ate your loaf in your sleep , you glutton , and you may starve as long as you like , but you wo n't get a scrap of ours . '
20 Ferko was at a loss to understand how he could have eaten in his sleep , but he said nothing , and fasted all that day and the next night .
21 But on the following morning he was so hungry that he burst into tears , and implored his XXXXX to give him a little bit of their bread .	brothers		brother|brothers|children|eyes|heads|horse|man|proposal|sleep|youth

1 But a curse on the cruel mother That burnt my golden shell ! '
2 And so saying he wept bitterly .
3 Then the youths rose from the table , went back to the great stone fountain , turned themselves into eagles again , and flew away .
4 Then the old man went away too , returned to the light of day , and went home .
5 Soon after he heard that the Princess was ill , and that the only thing that did her good was having stories told to her .
6 He therefore went to the royal castle , obtained an audience of the Princess , and told her about the strange things he had seen in the underground palace .
7 No sooner had he finished than the Princess asked him whether he could find the way to that palace .
8 ` Yes , ' he answered , ` certainly . '
9 And now she desired him to guide her thither at once .
10 The old man did so , and when they came to the palace he hid her behind the great picture and advised her to keep quite still , and he placed himself behind the picture also .
11 Presently the eagles came flying in , and changed themselves into young men , and in a moment the Princess recognised her husband amongst them all , and tried to come out of her hiding-place ; but the old man held her back .
12 The youths seated themselves at the table ; and now the Prince said again , while he took up the cup of wine : ' A health to my dearest lady , Long may she live and well !
13 But a curse on the cruel mother That burnt my golden shell ! '
14 Then the Princess could restrain herself no longer , but ran forward and threw her arms round her husband .
15 And immediately he knew her again , and said : ` Do you remember how I told you that day that you would betray me ?
16 Now you see that I spoke the truth .
17 But all that bad time is past .
18 Now listen to me : I must still remain enchanted for three months .
19 Will you stay here with me till that time is over ? '
20 So the Princess stayed with him , and said to the old man , ` Go back to the castle and tell my parents that I am staying here . '
21 Her parents were very much vexed when the old man came back and told them this , but as soon as the three months of the Prince 's enchantment were over , he ceased to be an eagle and became once more a man , and they returned XXXXX together .	home		home|husband|man|men|shell|thing|things|thither|way|youths

1 But another rushing wave arose and dragged him under once more .
2 The hunter 's wife , who had stood on the bank full of joy and hope , sank into despair when she saw her husband snatched away again before her eyes .
3 But for her comfort she dreamt the same dream a third time , and betook herself once more to the old witch 's hut in the flowery meadow .
4 This time the old woman told her to go the next full moon to the mill-pond , and to spin there with a golden spinning-wheel , and then to leave the spinning-wheel on the bank .
5 The hunter 's wife did as she was advised , and the first night the moon was full she sat and spun with a golden spinning-wheel , and then left the wheel on the bank .
6 In a few minutes a rushing sound was heard in the waters , and a wave swept the spinning-wheel from the bank .
7 Immediately the head of the hunter rose up from the pond , getting higher and higher each moment , till at length he stepped on to the bank and fell on his wife 's neck .
8 But the waters of the pond rose up suddenly , overflowed the bank where the couple stood , and dragged them under the flood .
9 In her despair the young wife called on the old witch to help her , and in a moment the hunter was turned into a frog and his wife into a toad .
10 But they were not able to remain together , for the water tore them apart , and when the flood was over they both resumed their own shapes again , but the hunter and the hunter 's wife found themselves each in a strange country , and neither knew what had become of the other .
11 The hunter determined to become a shepherd , and his wife too became a shepherdess .
12 So they herded their sheep for many years in solitude and sadness .
13 Now it happened once that the shepherd came to the country where the shepherdess lived .
14 The neighbourhood pleased him , and he saw that the pasture was rich and suitable for his flocks .
15 So he brought his sheep there , and herded them as before .
16 The shepherd and shepherdess became great friends , but they did not recognise each other in the least .
17 But one evening when the moon was full they sat together watching their flocks , and the shepherd played upon his flute .
18 Then the shepherdess thought of that evening when she had sat at the full moon by the mill-pond and had played on the golden flute ; the recollection was too much for her , and she burst into tears .
19 The shepherd asked her why she was crying , and left her no peace till she told him all her story .
20 Then the scales fell from the shepherd 's eyes , and he recognised his wife , and she him .
21 So they returned joyfully to their own home , and lived in XXXXX and happiness ever after .	peace		despair|dream|flute|friends|hut|peace|story|tears|wave|woman

1 the Duchess said to Alice , flinging the baby at her as she spoke . '
2 I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen , ' and she hurried out of the room .
3 The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out , but it just missed her .
4 Alice caught the baby with some difficulty , as it was a queer-shaped little creature , and held out its arms and legs in all directions , ` just like a star-fish , ' thought Alice .
5 The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it , and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again , so that altogether , for the first minute or two , it was as much as she could do to hold it .
6 As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it , -LRB- which was to twist it up into a sort of knot , and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot , so as to prevent its undoing itself , -RRB- she carried it out into the open air .
7 ` IF I do n't take this child away with me , ' thought Alice , ` they 're sure to kill it in a day or two : would n't it be murder to leave it behind ? '
8 She said the last words out loud , and the little thing grunted in reply -LRB- it had left off sneezing by this time -RRB- .
9 ` Do n't grunt , ' said Alice ; ` that 's not at all a proper way of expressing yourself . '
10 The baby grunted again , and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it .
11 There could be no doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose , much more like a snout than a real nose ; also its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby : altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at all .
12 ` But perhaps it was only sobbing , ' she thought , and looked into its eyes again , to see if there were any tears .
13 No , there were no tears .
14 ` If you 're going to turn into a pig , my dear , ' said Alice , seriously , ` I 'll have nothing more to do with you .
15 Mind now ! '
16 The poor little thing sobbed again -LRB- or grunted , it was impossible to say which -RRB- , and they went on for some while in silence .
17 Alice was just beginning to think to herself , ` Now , what am I to do with this creature when I get it home ? '
18 when it grunted again , so violently , that she looked down into its face in some alarm .
19 This time there could be NO mistake about it : it was neither more nor less than a pig , and she felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it further .
20 So she set the little creature down , and felt quite relieved to see it trot away quietly into the wood .
21 ` If it had grown up , ' she said to herself , ` it would have made a dreadfully ugly XXXXX : but it makes rather a handsome pig , I think . '	child		Mind|child|creature|difficulty|face|matter|nothing|room|snout|tears

1 But it is not known whether this ring was ever made by mortal hands : it is supposed that an angel gave it to the wise King . '
2 When the youth heard all this he determined to try and get possession of the ring , though he did not quite believe in all its wonderful gifts .
3 He wished the maiden would let him have it in his hand , but he did not quite like to ask her to do so , and after a while she put it back into the box .
4 A few days after they were again speaking of the magic ring , and the youth said , ' I do not think it possible that the ring can have all the power you say it has . '
5 Then the maiden opened the box and took the ring out , and it glittered as she held it like the clearest sunbeam .
6 She put it on the middle finger of her left hand , and told the youth to take a knife and try as hard as he could to cut her with it , for he would not be able to hurt her .
7 He was unwilling at first , but the maiden insisted .
8 Then he tried , at first only in play , and then seriously , to strike her with the knife , but an invisible wall of iron seemed to be between them , and the maiden stood before him laughing and unhurt .
9 Then she put the ring on her third finger , and in an instant she had vanished from his eyes .
10 Presently she was beside him again laughing , and holding the ring between her fingers .
11 ` Do let me try , ' said the youth , ` whether I can do these wonderful things . '
12 The maiden , suspecting no treachery , gave him the magic ring .
13 The youth pretended to have forgotten what to do , and asked what finger he must put the ring on so that no sharp weapon could hurt him ? '
14 ` Oh , the middle finger of your left hand , ' the maiden answered , laughing .
15 She took the knife and tried to strike the youth , and he even tried to cut himself with it , but found it impossible .
16 Then he asked the maiden to show him how to split stones and rocks with the help of the ring .
17 So she led him into a courtyard where stood a great boulder-stone .
18 ` Now , ' she said , ` put the ring upon the thumb of your left hand , and you will see how strong that hand has become .
19 The youth did so , and found to his astonishment that with a single blow of his fist the stone flew into a thousand pieces .
20 Then the youth bethought him that he who does not use his luck when he has it is a fool , and that this was a chance which once lost might never return .
21 So while they stood laughing at the shattered XXXXX he placed the ring , as if in play , upon the third finger of his left hand .	stone		astonishment|blow|box|courtyard|finger|maiden|pieces|possession|power|stone

1 You must be careful that the rolls last till our return . '
2 And Waska took leave of her beloved master , and set off with Schurka on their journey .
3 On and on they travelled , looking always to right and left for traces of the Princess , following up every track , making inquiries of every cat and dog they met , listening to the talk of every wayfarer they passed ; and at last they heard that the kingdom at the utmost ends of the earth where the twelve youths had borne the Princess was not very far off .
4 And at last one day they reached that distant kingdom , and , going at once to the palace , they began to make friends with all the dogs and cats in the place , and to question them about the Princess and the magic ring ; but no one could tell them much about either .
5 Now one day it chanced that Waska had gone down to the palace cellar to hunt for mice and rats , and seeing an especially fat , well-fed mouse , she pounced upon it , buried her claws in its soft fur , and was just going to gobble it up , when she was stopped by the pleading tones of the little creature , saying , ` If you will only spare my life I may be of great service to you .
6 I will do everything in my power for you ; for I am the King of the Mice , and if I perish the whole race will die out . '
7 ` So be it , ' said Waska . '
8 I will spare your life ; but in return you must do something for me .
9 In this castle there lives a Princess , the wicked wife of my dear master .
10 She has stolen away his magic ring .
11 You must get it away from her at whatever cost ; do you hear ?
12 Till you have done this I wo n't take my claws out of your fur . '
13 ` Good ! '
14 replied the mouse ; ' I will do what you ask . '
15 And , so saying , he summoned all the mice in his kingdom together .
16 A countless number of mice , small and big , brown and grey , assembled , and formed a circle round their king , who was a prisoner under Waska 's claws .
17 Turning to them he said : ` Dear and faithful subjects , who ever among you will steal the magic ring from the strange Princess will release me from a cruel death ; and I shall honour him above all the other mice in the kingdom . '
18 Instantly a tiny mouse stepped forward and said : ' I often creep about the Princess 's bedroom at night , and I have noticed that she has a ring which she treasures as the apple of her eye .
19 All day she wears it on her finger , and at night she keeps it in her mouth .
20 I will undertake , sire , to steal away the ring for you . '
21 And the tiny mouse tripped away into the XXXXX of the Princess , and waited for nightfall ; then , when the Princess had fallen asleep , it crept up on to her bed , and gnawed a hole in the pillow , through which it dragged one by one little down feathers , and threw them under the Princess 's nose .	bedroom		bedroom|cats|dog|earth|friends|kingdom|leave|place|traces|treasures

1 He had set its broken leg and was nursing it back to health .
2 Anyone except Uncle Abimelech could see that Murray was simply born to be a doctor and that it was flying in the face of Providence to think of making him anything else .
3 From the garret windows I could see all over the farm , for the house is on the hill end of it .
4 I could see all the dear old fields and the spring meadow and the beech woods in the southwest corner .
5 And beyond the orchard were the two grey barns and down below at the right-hand corner was the garden with all my sweet peas fluttering over the fences and trellises like a horde of butterflies .
6 It was a dear old place and both Murray and I loved every stick and stone on it , but there was no reason why we should go on living there when Murray did n't like farming .
7 And it was n't our own , anyhow .
8 It all belonged to Uncle Abimelech .
9 Father and Murray and I had always lived here together .
10 Father 's health broke down during his college course .
11 That was one reason why Uncle Abimelech was set against Murray going to college , although Murray is as chubby and sturdy a fellow as you could wish to see .
12 Anybody with Foster in him would be that .
13 To go back to Father .
14 The doctors told him that his only chance of recovering his strength was an open-air life , so Father rented one of Uncle Abimelech 's farms and there he lived for the rest of his days .
15 He did not get strong again until it was too late for college , and he was a square peg in a round hole all his life , as he used to tell us .
16 Mother died before we could remember , so Murray and Dad and I were everything to each other .
17 We were very happy too , although we were bossed by Uncle Abimelech more or less .
18 But he meant it well and Father did n't mind .
19 Then Father died -- oh , that was a dreadful time !
20 I hurried over it in my thinking-out .
21 Of course when Murray and I came to look our position squarely in the XXXXX we found that we were dependent on Uncle Abimelech for everything , even the roof over our heads .	face		doctor|face|farm|farms|health|leg|life|peas|place|rest

1 So she went in search of her hedgehog .
2 The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog , which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other : the only difficulty was , that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden , where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree .
3 By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back , the fight was over , and both the hedgehogs were out of sight : ` but it does n't matter much , ' thought Alice , ` as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground . '
4 So she tucked it away under her arm , that it might not escape again , and went back for a little more conversation with her friend .
5 When she got back to the Cheshire Cat , she was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it : there was a dispute going on between the executioner , the King , and the Queen , who were all talking at once , while all the rest were quite silent , and looked very uncomfortable .
6 The moment Alice appeared , she was appealed to by all three to settle the question , and they repeated their arguments to her , though , as they all spoke at once , she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said .
7 The executioner 's argument was , that you could n't cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from : that he had never had to do such a thing before , and he was n't going to begin at HIS time of life .
8 The King 's argument was , that anything that had a head could be beheaded , and that you were n't to talk nonsense .
9 The Queen 's argument was , that if something was n't done about it in less than no time she 'd have everybody executed , all round .
10 -LRB- It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious . -RRB-
11 Alice could think of nothing else to say but ` It belongs to the Duchess : you 'd better ask HER about it . '
12 ` She 's in prison , ' the Queen said to the executioner : ` fetch her here . '
13 And the executioner went off like an arrow .
14 The Cat 's head began fading away the moment he was gone , and , by the time he had come back with the Duchess , it had entirely disappeared ; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it , while the rest of the party went back to the game .
15 CHAPTER IX .
16 The Mock Turtle 's Story ` You ca n't think how glad I am to see you again , you dear old thing ! '
17 said the Duchess , as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice 's , and they walked off together .
18 Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper , and thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage when they met in the kitchen .
19 ` When I 'M a Duchess , ' she said to herself , -LRB- not in a very hopeful tone though -RRB- , ' I wo n't have any pepper in my kitchen AT ALL .
20 Soup does very well without -- Maybe it 's always pepper that makes people hot-tempered , ' she went on , very much pleased at having found out a new kind of rule , ` and vinegar that makes them sour -- and camomile that makes them bitter -- and -- and barley-sugar and such things that make children sweet-tempered .
21 I only wish people knew that : then they would n't be so stingy about it , you know -- ' She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this XXXXX , and was a little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear .	time		CHAPTER|Soup|anything|body|conversation|difficulty|nonsense|opportunity|side|time

1 said the Princess ; ` but have you anything you can roast them in ?
2 for I have neither pot nor saucepan . '
3 ` Oh , rather ! '
4 said Blockhead-Hans .
5 ` Here is a cooking implement with tin rings , ' and he drew out the old wooden shoe , and laid the crow in it .
6 ` That is quite a meal ! '
7 said the Princess ; ` but where shall we get the soup from ? '
8 ` I 've got that in my pocket ! '
9 said Blockhead-Hans . '
10 I have so much that I can quite well throw some away ! '
11 and he poured some mud out of his pocket . '
12 I like you ! '
13 said the Princess .
14 ` You can answer , and you can speak , and I will marry you ; but do you know that every word which we are saying and have said has been taken down and will be in the paper to-morrow ?
15 By each window do you see there are standing three reporters and an old editor , and this old editor is the worst , for he does n't understand anything ! '
16 but she only said this to tease Blockhead-Hans .
17 And the reporters giggled , and each dropped a blot of ink on the floor .
18 ` Ah !
19 are those the great people ? '
20 said Blockhead-Hans .
21 ` Then I will give the XXXXX the best ! '	editor		anything|editor|mud|people|pot|reporters|roast|soup|window|word

1 ` It wo n't please you any better , ' said the Cat , ` he was called Clean Gone . '
2 ` Cleangone ! '
3 repeated the Mouse . '
4 I do not believe that name has been printed any more than the others .
5 Cleangone !
6 What can it mean ? '
7 She shook her head , curled herself up , and went to sleep .
8 From this time on no one asked the Cat to stand godmother ; but when the winter came and there was nothing to be got outside , the Mouse remembered their provision and said , ` Come , Cat , we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored away ; it will taste very good . '
9 ` Yes , indeed , ' answered the Cat ; ` it will taste as good to you as if you stretched your thin tongue out of the window . '
10 They started off , and when they reached it they found the pot in its place , but quite empty !
11 ` Ah , ' said the Mouse , ' ` now I know what has happened !
12 It has all come out !
13 You are a true friend to me !
14 You have eaten it all when you stood godmother ; first the top off , then half of it gone , then -- ' ` Will you be quiet ! '
15 screamed the Cat .
16 ` Another word and I will eat you up . '
17 ` Clean-gone ' was already on the poor Mouse 's tongue , and scarcely was it out than the Cat made a spring at her , seized and swallowed her .
18 You see that is the way of the world .
19 THE SIX SWANS A king was once hunting in a great wood , and he hunted the game so eagerly that none of his courtiers could follow him .
20 When evening came on he stood still and looked round him , and he saw that he had quite lost himself .
21 He sought a way out , but could find XXXXX .	none		Mouse|SWANS|game|head|king|none|others|window|winter|word

1 `` This has been the pleasantest Christmas I have ever spent , '' she said heartily .
2 `` I shall never forget that wonderful basket of yours .
3 The little shop girl is going home with me .
4 I 've promised her a place in my husband 's store . ''
5 When Aunt Cyrilla and Lucy Rose reached Pembroke there was nobody to meet them because everyone had given up expecting them .
6 It was not far from the station to Edward 's house and Aunt Cyrilla elected to walk .
7 `` I 'll carry the basket , '' said Lucy Rose .
8 Aunt Cyrilla relinquished it with a smile .
9 Lucy Rose smiled too .
10 `` It 's a blessed old basket , '' said the latter , `` and I love it .
11 Please forget all the silly things I ever said about it , Aunt C'rilla . ''
12 Davenport 's Story It was a rainy afternoon , and we had been passing the time by telling ghost stories .
13 That is a very good sort of thing for a rainy afternoon , and it is a much better time than after night .
14 If you tell ghost stories after dark they are apt to make you nervous , whether you own up to it or not , and you sneak home and dodge upstairs in mortal terror , and undress with your back to the wall , so that you ca n't fancy there is anything behind you .
15 We had each told a story , and had had the usual assortment of mysterious noises and death warnings and sheeted spectres and so on , down through the whole catalogue of horrors -- enough to satisfy any reasonable ghost-taster .
16 But Jack , as usual , was dissatisfied .
17 He said our stories were all second-hand stuff .
18 There was n't a man in the crowd who had ever seen or heard a ghost ; all our so-called authentic stories had been told us by persons who had the story from other persons who saw the ghosts .
19 `` One does n't get any information from that , '' said Jack .
20 `` I never expect to get so far along as to see a real ghost myself , but I would like to see and talk to one who had . ''
21 Some XXXXX appear to have the knack of getting their wishes granted .	persons		Aunt|assortment|ghosts|nobody|noises|persons|place|stories|story|stuff

1 Fancy reading for the first time about it in a book ! '
2 And he called his First Lord to him .
3 He was so proud that if anyone of lower rank than his own ventured to speak to him or ask him anything , he would say nothing but ` P ! '
4 and that does not mean anything .
5 ` Here is a most remarkable bird which is called a Nightingale ! '
6 said the Emperor .
7 ` They say it is the most glorious thing in my kingdom .
8 Why has no one ever said anything to me about it ? ' '
9 I have never before heard it mentioned ! '
10 said the First Lord . '
11 I will look for it and find it ! '
12 But where was it to be found ?
13 The First Lord ran up and down stairs , through the halls and corridors ; but none of those he met had ever heard of the Nightingale .
14 And the First Lord ran again to the Emperor , and told him that it must be an invention on the part of those who had written the books .
15 ` Your Imperial Majesty can not really believe all that is written !
16 There are some inventions called the Black Art ! '
17 ` But the book in which I read this , ' said the Emperor , ` is sent me by His Great Majesty the Emperor of Japan ; so it can not be untrue , and I will hear the Nightingale !
18 She must be here this evening !
19 She has my gracious permission to appear , and if she does not , the whole Court shall be trampled under foot after supper ! '
20 ` Tsing pe ! '
21 said the First Lord ; and he ran up and down stairs , through the XXXXX and corridors , and half the Court ran with him , for they did not want to be trampled under foot .	halls		Lord|anyone|anything|book|corridors|halls|kingdom|reading|stairs|thing

1 exclaimed his mother in a great passion .
2 ` Leave the house at once , and go and beg your bread among strangers ; ' and as Martin did not dare to contradict her , he called Schurka and Waska and started off with them to the nearest village in search of work .
3 On the way he met a rich peasant , who asked him where he was going . '
4 I want to get work as a day labourer , ' he answered .
5 ` Come along with me , then .
6 But I must tell you I engage my labourers without wages .
7 If you serve me faithfully for a year , I promise you it shall be for your advantage . '
8 So Martin consented , and for a year he worked diligently , and served his master faithfully , not sparing himself in any way .
9 When the day of reckoning had come the peasant led him into a barn , and pointing to two full sacks , said : ` Take whichever of these you choose . '
10 Martin examined the contents of the sacks , and seeing that one was full of silver and the other of sand , he said to himself : ` There must be some trick about this ; I had better take the sand . '
11 And throwing the sack over his shoulders he started out into the world , in search of fresh work .
12 On and on he walked , and at last he reached a great gloomy wood .
13 In the middle of the wood he came upon a meadow , where a fire was burning , and in the midst of the fire , surrounded by flames , was a lovely damsel , more beautiful than anything that Martin had ever seen , and when she saw him she called to him : ` Martin , if you would win happiness , save my life .
14 Extinguish the flames with the sand that you earned in payment of your faithful service . '
15 ` Truly , ' thought Martin to himself , ` it would be more sensible to save a fellow-being 's life with this sand than to drag it about on one 's back , seeing what a weight it is . '
16 And forthwith he lowered the sack from his shoulders and emptied its contents on the flames , and instantly the fire was extinguished ; but at the same moment lo !
17 and behold the lovely damsel turned into a Serpent , and , darting upon him , coiled itself round his neck , and whispered lovingly in his ear : ` Do not be afraid of me , Martin ; I love you , and will go with you through the world .
18 But first you must follow me boldly into my Father 's Kingdom , underneath the earth ; and when we get there , remember this -- he will offer you gold and silver , and dazzling gems , but do not touch them .
19 Ask him , instead , for the ring which he wears on his little finger , for in that ring lies a magic power ; you have only to throw it from one hand to the other , and at once twelve young men will appear , who will do your bidding , no matter how difficult , in a single night . '
20 So they started on their way , and after much wandering they reached a spot where a great rock rose straight up in the middle of the road .
21 Instantly the Serpent uncoiled itself from his neck , and , as it touched the damp earth , it resumed the shape of the lovely XXXXX .	damsel		advantage|anything|damsel|hand|life|master|midst|passion|trick|wood

1 Get off to bed with you this instant . ''
2 Chester crept off to his garret chamber with a very sullen face .
3 He was too used to being sent to bed without any supper to care much for that , although he was hungry .
4 But his whole being was in a tumult of rebellion over the injustice that was meted out to him .
5 `` I wo n't stand it ! ''
6 he muttered over and over again .
7 `` I 'll run away .
8 I wo n't stay here . ''
9 To talk of running away was one thing .
10 To do it without a cent in your pocket or a place to run to was another .
11 But Chester had a great deal of determination in his make-up when it was fairly roused , and his hard upbringing had made him older and shrewder than his years .
12 He lay awake late that night , thinking out ways and means , but could arrive at no satisfactory conclusion .
13 The next day Mrs. Elwell said , `` Ches , Abner Stearns wants you to go up there for a fortnight while Tom Bixby is away , and drive the milk wagon of mornings and do the chores for Mrs. Stearns .
14 You might as well put in the time ` fore harvest that way as any other .
15 So hustle off -- and mind you behave yourself . ''
16 Chester heard the news gladly .
17 He had not yet devised any feasible plan for running away , and he always liked to work at the Stearns ' place .
18 To be sure , Mrs. Elwell received all the money he earned , but Mrs. Stearns was kind to him , and though he had to work hard and constantly , he was well fed and well treated by all .
19 The following fortnight was a comparatively happy one for the lad .
20 But he did not forget his purpose of shaking the dust of Upton from his feet as soon as possible , and he cudgelled his brains trying to find a way .
21 On the evening when he left the Stearns ' homestead , Mr. Stearns paid him for his fortnight 's work , much to the boy 's surprise , for Mrs. Elwell had always insisted that all such XXXXX should be paid directly to her .	money		brains|dust|face|fortnight|lad|money|news|place|purpose|way

1 Kletke .
2 There was once upon a time a King and Queen who had everything they could possibly wish for in this world except a child .
3 At last , after twelve years , the Queen gave birth to a son ; but she did not live long to enjoy her happiness , for on the following day she died .
4 But before her death she called her husband to her and said , ` Never let the child put his feet on the ground , for as soon as he does so he will fall into the power of a wicked Fairy , who will do him much harm . '
5 And these were the last words the poor Queen spoke .
6 The boy throve and grew big , and when he was too heavy for his nurse to carry , a chair was made for him on little wheels , in which he could wander through the palace gardens without help ; at other times he was carried about on a litter , and he was always carefully watched and guarded for fear he should at any time put his feet to the ground .
7 But as this sort of life was bad for his health , the doctors ordered him horse exercise , and he soon became a first-rate rider , and used to go out for long excursions on horseback , accompanied always by his father 's stud-groom and a numerous retinue .
8 Every day he rode through the neighbouring fields and woods , and always returned home in the evening safe and well .
9 In this way many years passed , and the Prince grew to manhood , and hardly anyone remembered the Queen 's warning , though precautions were still taken , more from use and wont than for any other reason .
10 One day the Prince and his suite went out for a ride in a wood where his father sometimes held a hunt .
11 Their way led through a stream whose banks were overgrown with thick brushwood .
12 Just as the horsemen were about to ford the river , a hare , startled by the sound of the horses ' hoofs , started up from the grass and ran towards the thicket .
13 The young Prince pursued the little creature , and had almost overtaken it , when the girth of his saddle suddenly broke in two and he fell heavily to the ground .
14 No sooner had his foot touched the earth than he disappeared before the eyes of the horrified courtiers .
15 They sought for him far and near , but all in vain , and they were forced to recognise the power of the evil Fairy , against which the Queen had warned them on her death-bed .
16 The old King was much grieved when they brought him the news of his son 's disappearance , but as he could do nothing to free him from his fate , he gave himself up to an old age of grief and loneliness , cherishing at the same time the hope that some lucky chance might one day deliver the youth out of the hands of his enemy .
17 Hardly had the Prince touched the ground than he felt himself violently seized by an unseen power , and hurried away he knew not whither .
18 A whole new world stretched out before him , quite unlike the one he had left .
19 A splendid castle surrounded by a huge lake was the abode of the Fairy , and the only approach to it was over a bridge of clouds .
20 On the other side of the lake high mountains rose up , and dark woods stretched along the banks ; over all hung a thick mist , and deep silence reigned everywhere .
21 No sooner had the XXXXX reached her own domain than she made herself visible , and turning to the Prince she told him that unless he obeyed all her commands down to the minutest detail he would be severely punished .	Fairy		Fairy|creature|day|ground|hoofs|husband|nurse|sound|warning|words

1 said Alice to herself , rather sharply ; ' I advise you to leave off this minute ! '
2 She generally gave herself very good advice , -LRB- though she very seldom followed it -RRB- , and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes ; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself , for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people .
3 ` But it 's no use now , ' thought poor Alice , ` to pretend to be two people !
4 Why , there 's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable person ! '
5 Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table : she opened it , and found in it a very small cake , on which the words ` EAT ME ' were beautifully marked in currants .
6 ` Well , I 'll eat it , ' said Alice , ` and if it makes me grow larger , I can reach the key ; and if it makes me grow smaller , I can creep under the door ; so either way I 'll get into the garden , and I do n't care which happens ! '
7 She ate a little bit , and said anxiously to herself , ` Which way ?
8 Which way ? '
9 , holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing , and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size : to be sure , this generally happens when one eats cake , but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen , that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way .
10 So she set to work , and very soon finished off the cake .
11 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * CHAPTER II .
12 The Pool of Tears ` Curiouser and curiouser ! '
13 cried Alice -LRB- she was so much surprised , that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English -RRB- ; ` now I 'm opening out like the largest telescope that ever was !
14 Good-bye , feet ! '
15 -LRB- for when she looked down at her feet , they seemed to be almost out of sight , they were getting so far off -RRB- .
16 ` Oh , my poor little feet , I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now , dears ?
17 I 'm sure I sha n't be able !
18 I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you : you must manage the best way you can ; -- but I must be kind to them , ' thought Alice , ` or perhaps they wo n't walk the way I want to go !
19 Let me see : I 'll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas . '
20 And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it .
21 ` They must go by the carrier , ' she thought ; ` and how funny it 'll seem , sending presents to one 's own XXXXX !	feet		CHAPTER|advice|bit|box|door|feet|game|people|tears|top

1 He worked to please Miss Salome .
2 She was good and kind and gentle to him , and his starved heart thawed and expanded in the sunshine of her atmosphere .
3 She went to the little porch room every night to kiss him good night .
4 Chester would have been bitterly disappointed if she had failed to go .
5 She was greatly shocked to find out that he had never said his prayers before going to bed .
6 She insisted on teaching him the simple little one she had used herself when a child .
7 When Chester found that it would please her , he said it every night .
8 There was nothing he would not have done for Miss Salome .
9 She talked a good deal to him about Johnny and she gave him the jack-knife that Johnny had owned .
10 `` It belonged to a good , manly little boy once , '' she said , `` and now I hope it belongs to another such . ''
11 `` I ai n't very good , '' said Chester repentantly , `` but I 'll try to be , Miss Salome -- honest , I will . ''
12 One day he heard Miss Salome speaking of someone who had run away from home .
13 `` A wicked , ungrateful boy , '' she called him .
14 Chester blushed until his freckles were drowned out in a sea of red , and Clemantiny saw it , of course .
15 When did anything ever escape those merciless black eyes of Clemantiny 's ?
16 `` Do you think it 's always wrong for a fellow to run away , Miss Salome ? ''
17 he faltered .
18 `` It ca n't ever be right , '' said Miss Salome decidedly .
19 `` But if he was n't treated well -- and was jawed at -- and not let go to school ? ''
20 pleaded Chester .
21 Clemantiny gave XXXXX Salome a look as of one who would say , You 're bat-blind if you ca n't read between the lines of that ; but Miss Salome was placidly unconscious .	Miss		Miss|anything|boy|eyes|fellow|freckles|heart|nothing|sea|sunshine

1 `` It is nothing , it is nothing , if thou art safe , oh , my pride of all little frogs ! ''
2 whimpered Baloo .
3 `` Of that we shall judge later , '' said Bagheera , in a dry voice that Mowgli did not at all like .
4 `` But here is Kaa to whom we owe the battle and thou owest thy life .
5 Thank him according to our customs , Mowgli . ''
6 Mowgli turned and saw the great Python 's head swaying a foot above his own .
7 `` So this is the manling , '' said Kaa .
8 `` Very soft is his skin , and he is not unlike the Bandar-log .
9 Have a care , manling , that I do not mistake thee for a monkey some twilight when I have newly changed my coat . ''
10 `` We be one blood , thou and I , '' Mowgli answered .
11 `` I take my life from thee tonight .
12 My kill shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry , O Kaa . ''
13 `` All thanks , Little Brother , '' said Kaa , though his eyes twinkled .
14 `` And what may so bold a hunter kill ?
15 I ask that I may follow when next he goes abroad . ''
16 `` I kill nothing , -- I am too little , -- but I drive goats toward such as can use them .
17 When thou art empty come to me and see if I speak the truth .
18 I have some skill in these -LSB- he held out his hands -RSB- , and if ever thou art in a trap , I may pay the debt which I owe to thee , to Bagheera , and to Baloo , here .
19 Good hunting to ye all , my masters . ''
20 `` Well said , '' growled Baloo , for Mowgli had returned thanks very prettily .
21 The Python dropped his XXXXX lightly for a minute on Mowgli 's shoulder .	head		art|battle|coat|debt|head|hunter|masters|skill|skin|voice

1 He did not know much of white men , but Petersen Sahib was the greatest white man in the world to him .
2 He was the head of all the Keddah operations -- the man who caught all the elephants for the Government of India , and who knew more about the ways of elephants than any living man .
3 `` What -- what will happen ? ''
4 said Little Toomai .
5 `` Happen !
6 The worst that can happen .
7 Petersen Sahib is a madman .
8 Else why should he go hunting these wild devils ?
9 He may even require thee to be an elephant catcher , to sleep anywhere in these fever-filled jungles , and at last to be trampled to death in the Keddah .
10 It is well that this nonsense ends safely .
11 Next week the catching is over , and we of the plains are sent back to our stations .
12 Then we will march on smooth roads , and forget all this hunting .
13 But , son , I am angry that thou shouldst meddle in the business that belongs to these dirty Assamese jungle folk .
14 Kala Nag will obey none but me , so I must go with him into the Keddah , but he is only a fighting elephant , and he does not help to rope them .
15 So I sit at my ease , as befits a mahout , -- not a mere hunter , -- a mahout , I say , and a man who gets a pension at the end of his service .
16 Is the family of Toomai of the Elephants to be trodden underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah ?
17 Bad one !
18 Wicked one !
19 Worthless son !
20 Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ears , and see that there are no thorns in his feet .
21 Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild XXXXX -- a follower of elephant 's foot tracks , a jungle bear .	hunter		Elephants|befits|elephant|hunter|hunting|man|roads|stations|underfoot|world

1 Whilst at luncheon he suddenly spied a little monkey of the brightest green sitting on a tree and gazing so tenderly at him that he felt quite moved .
2 He forbade his courtiers to frighten it , and the monkey , noticing how much attention was being paid him , sprang from bough to bough , and at length gradually approached the King , who offered him some food .
3 The monkey took it very daintily and finally came to the table .
4 The King took him on his knees , and , delighted with his capture , brought him home with him .
5 He would trust no one else with its care , and the whole Court soon talked of nothing but the pretty green monkey .
6 One morning , as Prince Alphege 's governess and her daughter were alone together , the little monkey sprang in through an open window .
7 He had escaped from the palace , and his manners were so gentle and caressing that Zayda and her mother soon got over the first fright he had given them .
8 He had spent some time with them and quite won their hearts by his insinuating ways , when the King discovered where he was and sent to fetch him back .
9 But the monkey made such piteous cries , and seemed so unhappy when anyone attempted to catch him , that the two ladies begged the King to leave him a little longer with them , to which he consented .
10 One evening , as they sat by the fountain in the garden , the little monkey kept gazing at Zayda with such sad and loving eyes that she and her mother could not think what to make of it , and they were still more surprised when they saw big tears rolling down his cheeks .
11 Next day both mother and daughter were sitting in a jessamine bower in the garden , and they began to talk of the green monkey and his strange ways .
12 The mother said , ` My dear child , I can no longer hide my feelings from you .
13 I can not get the thought out of my mind that the green monkey is no other than our beloved Prince Alphege , transformed in this strange fashion .
14 I know the idea sounds wild , but I can not get it out of my heart , and it leaves me no peace . '
15 As she spoke she glanced up , and there sat the little monkey , whose tears and gestures seemed to confirm her words .
16 The following night the elder lady dreamt that she saw the Good Queen , who said , ` Do not weep any longer but follow my directions .
17 Go into your garden and lift up the little marble slab at the foot of the great myrtle tree .
18 You will find beneath it a crystal vase filled with a bright green liquid .
19 Take it with you and place the thing which is at present most in your thoughts into a bath filled with roses and rub it well with the green liquid . '
20 At these words the sleeper awoke , and lost no time in rising and hurrying to the garden , where she found all as the Good Queen had described .
21 Then she hastened to rouse her XXXXX and together they prepared the bath , for they would not let their women know what they were about .	daughter		bower|cheeks|daughter|fright|garden|home|mind|palace|peace|sleeper

1 ALL THE BEASTS TOGETHER Children of the Camp are we , Serving each in his degree ; Children of the yoke and goad , Pack and harness , pad and load .
2 See our line across the plain , Like a heel-rope bent again , Reaching , writhing , rolling far , Sweeping all away to war !
3 While the men that walk beside , Dusty , silent , heavy-eyed , Can not tell why we or they March and suffer day by day .
4 I JIMMY SKUNK IS PUZZLED Old Mother West Wind had just come down from the Purple Hills and turned loose her children , the Merry Little Breezes , from the big bag in which she had been carrying them .
5 They were very lively and very merry as they danced and raced across the Green Meadows in all directions , for it was good to be back there once more .
6 Old Mother West Wind almost sighed as she watched them for a few minutes .
7 She felt that she would like to join them .
8 Always the springtime made her feel this way , -- young , mad , carefree , and happy .
9 But she had work to do .
10 She had to turn the windmill to pump water for Farmer Brown 's cows , and this was only one of many mills standing idle as they waited for her .
11 So she puffed her cheeks out and started about her business .
12 Jimmy Skunk sat at the top of the hill that overlooks the Green Meadows and watched her out of sight .
13 Then he started to amble down the Lone Little Path to look for some beetles .
14 He was ambling along in his lazy way , for you know he never hurries , when he heard some one puffing and blowing behind him .
15 Of course he turned to see who it was , and he was greatly surprised when he discovered Old Mr. Toad .
16 Yes , Sir , it was Old Mr. Toad , and he seemed in a great hurry .
17 He was quite short of breath , but he was hopping along in the most determined way as if he were in a great hurry to get somewhere .
18 Now it is a very unusual thing for Mr. Toad to hurry , very unusual indeed .
19 As a rule he hops a few steps and then sits down to think it over .
20 Jimmy had never before seen him hop more than a few steps unless he was trying to get away from danger , from Mr. Blacksnake for instance .
21 Of XXXXX the first thing Jimmy thought of was Mr. Blacksnake , and he looked for him .	course		BEASTS|Mr.|breath|business|course|harness|pad|puffing|way|yoke

1 the whole of the people called out at last .
2 This struck the Emperor , for it seemed to him as if they were right ; but he thought to himself , ' I must go on with the procession now .
3 And the chamberlains walked along still more uprightly , holding up the train which was not there at all .
4 THE GOLDEN CRAB -LRB- 5 -RRB- -LRB- 5 -RRB- ` Prinz Krebs , ' from Griechische Mahrchen .
5 Schmidt .
6 Once upon a time there was a fisherman who had a wife and three children .
7 Every morning he used to go out fishing , and whatever fish he caught he sold to the King .
8 One day , among the other fishes , he caught a golden crab .
9 When he came home he put all the fishes together into a great dish , but he kept the Crab separate because it shone so beautifully , and placed it upon a high shelf in the cupboard .
10 Now while the old woman , his wife , was cleaning the fish , and had tucked up her gown so that her feet were visible , she suddenly heard a voice , which said : ` Let down , let down thy petticoat That lets thy feet be seen . '
11 She turned round in surprise , and then she saw the little creature , the Golden Crab .
12 ` What !
13 You can speak , can you , you ridiculous crab ? '
14 she said , for she was not quite pleased at the Crab 's remarks .
15 Then she took him up and placed him on a dish .
16 When her husband came home and they sat down to dinner , they presently heard the Crab 's little voice saying , ` Give me some too . '
17 They were all very much surprised , but they gave him something to eat .
18 When the old man came to take away the plate which had contained the Crab 's dinner , he found it full of gold , and as the same thing happened every day he soon became very fond of the Crab .
19 One day the Crab said to the fisherman 's wife , ` Go to the King and tell him I wish to marry his younger daughter . '
20 The old woman went accordingly , and laid the matter before the King , who laughed a little at the notion of his daughter marrying a crab , but did not decline the proposal altogether , because he was a prudent monarch , and knew that the Crab was likely to be a prince in disguise .
21 He said , therefore , to the XXXXX 's wife , ` Go , old woman , and tell the Crab I will give him my daughter if by to-morrow morning he can build a wall in front of my castle much higher than my tower , upon which all the flowers of the world must grow and bloom . '	fisherman		cupboard|dinner|dish|feet|fisherman|gown|monarch|prince|procession|train

1 The fairy told Serpentine that she was quite satisfied with her conduct , and made herself very agreeable to Saphir , whom she presented to the lady she had brought with her , explaining that the lady was no other than his Aunt Aglantine , widow of Diamantino .
2 Then they all fell into each other 's arms , till the fairy mounted her chariot , placed Aglantine by her side , and Saphir and Serpentine on the front seat .
3 She also sent a message to the Prince 's attendants that they might travel slowly back to the Court of King Peridor , and that the beautiful bird had really been found .
4 This matter being comfortably arranged , she started off her chariot .
5 But in spite of the swiftness with which they flew through the air , the time passed even quicker for Saphir and Serpentine , who had so much to think about .
6 They were still quite confused with the pleasure of seeing each other , when the chariot arrived at King Peridor 's palace .
7 He had had himself carried to a room on the roof , where his nurses thought that he would die at any moment .
8 Directly the chariot drew within sight of the castle the beautiful bird took flight , and , making straight for the dying King , at once cured him of his sickness .
9 Then she resumed her natural shape , and he found that the bird was no other than the Queen Constance , whom he had long believed to be dead .
10 Peridor was rejoiced to embrace his wife and his son once more , and with the help of the fairies began to make preparations for the marriage of Saphir and Serpentine , who turned out to be the daughter of Aglantine and Diamantino , and as much a princess as he was a prince .
11 The people of the kingdom were delighted , and everybody lived happy and contented to the end of their lives .
12 THE SEVEN-HEADED SERPENT -LRB- 9 -RRB- -LRB- 9 -RRB- ` Die Siebenkopfige Schlange , ' from Schmidt 's Griechische Mahrchen .
13 Once upon a time there was a king who determined to take a long voyage .
14 He assembled his fleet and all the seamen , and set out .
15 They went straight on night and day , until they came to an island which was covered with large trees , and under every tree lay a lion .
16 As soon as the King had landed his men , the lions all rose up together and tried to devour them .
17 After a long battle they managed to overcome the wild beasts , but the greater number of the men were killed .
18 Those who remained alive now went on through the forest and found on the other side of it a beautiful garden , in which all the plants of the world flourished together .
19 There were also in the garden three springs : the first flowed with silver , the second with gold , and the third with pearls .
20 The men unbuckled their knapsacks and filled them with those precious things .
21 In the middle of the XXXXX they found a large lake , and when they reached the edge of it the Lake began to speak , and said to them , ` What men are you , and what brings you here ?	garden		Aunt|Court|conduct|everybody|garden|gold|moment|pearls|room|silver

1 `` Give my love to Corona , '' she told her , `` and say for me that she is n't to go messing about among those shore people until she 's perfectly well .
2 The manse is the fourth house after you turn the third corner . ''
3 Frances kept count of the corners and the houses and found the manse .
4 Corona Sherwood herself came to the door .
5 Frances had been expecting an elderly personage with spectacles and grey crimps ; she was surprised to find that the minister 's sister was a girl of about her own age and possessed of a distinct worldly prettiness .
6 Corona was dark , with a different darkness from that of Frances , who had ivory outlines and blue-black hair , while Corona was dusky and piquant .
7 Her eyes brightened with delight when Frances told her errand .
8 `` How good of you and Miss Eleanor !
9 I am not strong enough to walk far yet -- or do anything useful , in fact , and Elliott so seldom has time to take me out . ''
10 `` Where shall we go ? ''
11 asked Frances when they started .
12 `` I do n't know much about this locality . ''
13 `` Can we drive to the Cove first ?
14 I want to see poor little Jacky Hart .
15 He has been so sick -- '' `` Aunt Eleanor positively forbade that , '' said Frances dubiously .
16 `` Will it be safe to disobey her ? ''
17 Corona laughed .
18 `` Miss Eleanor blames my poor shore people for making me sick at first , but it was really not that at all .
19 And I want to see Jacky Hart so much .
20 He has been ill for some time with some disease of the spine and he is worse lately .
21 I 'm sure XXXXX Eleanor wo n't mind my calling just to see him . ''	Miss		Aunt|Miss|corner|door|fact|hair|houses|manse|piquant|spine

1 she answered .
2 ` Why , you would be eaten up by wolves . '
3 But the foolish youth kept repeating , ' I will go , I will go , I will go ! '
4 Seeing that she could do nothing with him , the mother gave him a crust of bread and a bottle of water , and took no further heed of him .
5 So the Simpleton set off on his way .
6 When he had gone a short distance he met a little old manikin .
7 They greeted one another , and the manikin asked him where he was going . '
8 I am off to the King 's Court , ' he answered .
9 ` He has promised to give his daughter to whoever can make a flying ship . '
10 ` And can you make such a ship ? '
11 ` Not I. ' ` Then why in the world are you going ? '
12 ` Ca n't tell , ' replied the Simpleton .
13 ` Well , if that is the case , ' said the manikin , ` sit down beside me ; we can rest for a little and have something to eat .
14 Give me what you have got in your satchel . '
15 Now , the poor Simpleton was ashamed to show what was in it .
16 However , he thought it best not to make a fuss , so he opened the satchel , and could scarcely believe his own eyes , for , instead of the hard crust , he saw two beautiful fresh rolls and some cold meat .
17 He shared them with the manikin , who licked his lips and said : ` Now , go into that wood , and stop in front of the first tree , bow three times , and then strike the tree with your axe , fall on your knees on the ground , with your face on the earth , and remain there till you are raised up .
18 You will then find a ship at your side , step into it and fly to the King 's Palace .
19 If you meet anyone on the way , take him with you . '
20 The Simpleton thanked the manikin very kindly , bade him farewell , and went into the road .
21 When he got to the first tree he stopped in front of it , did everything just as he had been told , and , kneeling on the ground with his face to the XXXXX , fell asleep .	earth		I.|daughter|earth|eyes|front|meat|nothing|road|rolls|side

1 The Prince consented to this , and led his beautiful bride home , where the wedding was held with great pomp and magnificence .
2 The young couple lived happily together till winter came , when the Flower Queen 's daughter departed and went home to her mother .
3 In summer she returned to her husband , and their life of joy and happiness began again , and lasted till the approach of winter , when the Flower Queen 's daughter went back again to her mother .
4 This coming and going continued all her life long , and in spite of it they always lived happily together .
5 THE FLYING SHIP -LRB- 24 -RRB- -LRB- 24 -RRB- From the Russian .
6 Once upon a time there lived an old couple who had three sons ; the two elder were clever , but the third was a regular dunce .
7 The clever sons were very fond of their mother , gave her good clothes , and always spoke pleasantly to her ; but the youngest was always getting in her way , and she had no patience with him .
8 Now , one day it was announced in the village that the King had issued a decree , offering his daughter , the Princess , in marriage to whoever should build a ship that could fly .
9 Immediately the two elder brothers determined to try their luck , and asked their parents ' blessing .
10 So the old mother smartened up their clothes , and gave them a store of provisions for their journey , not forgetting to add a bottle of brandy .
11 When they had gone the poor Simpleton began to tease his mother to smarten him up and let him start off .
12 ` What would become of a dolt like you ? '
13 she answered .
14 ` Why , you would be eaten up by wolves . '
15 But the foolish youth kept repeating , ' I will go , I will go , I will go ! '
16 Seeing that she could do nothing with him , the mother gave him a crust of bread and a bottle of water , and took no further heed of him .
17 So the Simpleton set off on his way .
18 When he had gone a short distance he met a little old manikin .
19 They greeted one another , and the manikin asked him where he was going . '
20 I am off to the King 's Court , ' he answered .
21 ` He has promised to give his daughter to whoever can make a flying XXXXX . '	ship		couple|distance|home|life|manikin|marriage|ship|village|wolves|youth

1 The Queen smiled and passed on .
2 ` Who ARE you talking to ? '
3 said the King , going up to Alice , and looking at the Cat 's head with great curiosity .
4 ` It 's a friend of mine -- a Cheshire Cat , ' said Alice : ` allow me to introduce it . ' '
5 I do n't like the look of it at all , ' said the King : ` however , it may kiss my hand if it likes . '
6 ` I 'd rather not , ' the Cat remarked .
7 ` Do n't be impertinent , ' said the King , ` and do n't look at me like that ! '
8 He got behind Alice as he spoke . '
9 A cat may look at a king , ' said Alice .
10 ` I 've read that in some book , but I do n't remember where . '
11 ` Well , it must be removed , ' said the King very decidedly , and he called the Queen , who was passing at the moment , ` My dear !
12 I wish you would have this cat removed ! '
13 The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties , great or small .
14 ` Off with his head ! '
15 she said , without even looking round .
16 ` I 'll fetch the executioner myself , ' said the King eagerly , and he hurried off .
17 Alice thought she might as well go back , and see how the game was going on , as she heard the Queen 's voice in the distance , screaming with passion .
18 She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns , and she did not like the look of things at all , as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not .
19 So she went in search of her hedgehog .
20 The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog , which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other : the only difficulty was , that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden , where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree .
21 By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back , the fight was over , and both the hedgehogs were out of sight : ` but it does n't matter much , ' thought Alice , ` as all the arches are gone from this XXXXX of the ground . '	side		curiosity|difficulty|executioner|hand|head|king|look|moment|search|side

1 ` You , my wife , the companion of my days , will follow me ere many moons have waned to the island of the blest .
2 But for you , O my children , whose lives are but newly begun , the wickedness , unkindness , and ingratitude from which I fled are before you .
3 Yet I shall go hence in peace , my children , if you will promise always to love each other , and never to forsake your youngest brother .
4 ` Never ! '
5 they replied , holding out their hands .
6 And the hunter died content .
7 Scarcely eight moons had passed when , just as he had said , the wife went forth , and followed her husband ; but before leaving her children she bade the two elder ones think of their promise never to forsake the younger , for he was a child , and weak .
8 And while the snow lay thick upon the ground , they tended him and cherished him ; but when the earth showed green again , the heart of the young man stirred within him , and he longed to see the wigwams of the village where his father 's youth was spent .
9 Therefore he opened all his heart to his sister , who answered : ` My brother , I understand your longing for our fellow-men , whom here we can not see .
10 But remember our father 's words .
11 Shall we not seek our own pleasures , and forget the little one ? '
12 But he would not listen , and , making no reply , he took his bow and arrows and left the hut .
13 The snows fell and melted , yet he never returned ; and at last the heart of the girl grew cold and hard , and her little boy became a burden in her eyes , till one day she spoke thus to him : ` See , there is food for many days to come .
14 Stay here within the shelter of the hut .
15 I go to seek our brother , and when I have found him I shall return hither . '
16 But when , after hard journeying , she reached the village where her brother dwelt , and saw that he had a wife and was happy , and when she , too , was sought by a young brave , then she also forgot the boy alone in the forest , and thought only of her husband .
17 Now as soon as the little boy had eaten all the food which his sister had left him , he went out into the woods , and gathered berries and dug up roots , and while the sun shone he was contented and had his fill .
18 But when the snows began and the wind howled , then his stomach felt empty and his limbs cold , and he hid in trees all the night , and only crept out to eat what the wolves had left behind .
19 And by-and-by , having no other friends , he sought their company , and sat by while they devoured their prey , and they grew to know him , and gave him food .
20 And without them he would have died in the snow .
21 But at last the snows melted , and the ice upon the great lake , and as the XXXXX went down to the shore , the boy went after them .	wolves		burden|father|fill|girl|ground|heart|ingratitude|man|peace|wolves

1 When you reach the bottom of the tree you will find yourself in a large hall ; it is light there , for there are more than three hundred lamps burning .
2 Then you will see three doors , which you can open -- the keys are in the locks .
3 If you go into the first room , you will see a great chest in the middle of the floor with a dog sitting upon it ; he has eyes as large as saucers , but you need n't trouble about him .
4 I will give you my blue-check apron , which you must spread out on the floor , and then go back quickly and fetch the dog and set him upon it ; open the chest and take as much money as you like .
5 It is copper there .
6 If you would rather have silver , you must go into the next room , where there is a dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels .
7 But do n't take any notice of him ; just set him upon my apron , and help yourself to the money .
8 If you prefer gold , you can get that too , if you go into the third room , and as much as you like to carry .
9 But the dog that guards the chest there has eyes as large as the Round Tower at Copenhagen !
10 He is a savage dog , I can tell you ; but you need n't be afraid of him either .
11 Only , put him on my apron and he wo n't touch you , and you can take out of the chest as much gold as you like ! '
12 ` Come , this is not bad ! '
13 said the Soldier .
14 ` But what am I to give you , old Witch ; for surely you are not going to do this for nothing ? '
15 ` Yes , I am ! '
16 replied the Witch .
17 ` Not a single farthing will I take !
18 For me you shall bring nothing but an old tinder-box which my grandmother forgot last time she was down there . '
19 ` Well , tie the rope round my waist !
20 ` said the Soldier .
21 ` Here it is , ' said the XXXXX , ` and here is my blue-check apron . '	Witch		Witch|copper|doors|eyes|grandmother|lamps|locks|middle|notice|silver

1 The youth ran to look at it , and saw that a huge abyss had opened below the stone .
2 He went at once to fetch his brothers , and with their help dragged a lot of pine-wood and ropes to the spot .
3 They fastened some of the burning pine-wood to the end of the rope , and let it slowly down to the bottom of the abyss .
4 At first it was quite dark , and the flaming torch only lit up dirty grey stone walls .
5 But the youngest brother determined to explore the abyss , and letting himself down by the rope he soon reached the bottom .
6 Here he found a lovely meadow full of green trees and exquisite flowers .
7 In the middle of the meadow stood a huge stone castle , with an iron gate leading to it , which was wide open .
8 Everything in the castle seemed to be made of copper , and the only inhabitant he could discover was a lovely girl , who was combing her golden hair ; and he noticed that whenever one of her hairs fell on the ground it rang out like pure metal .
9 The youth looked at her more closely , and saw that her skin was smooth and fair , her blue eyes bright and sparkling , and her hair as golden as the sun .
10 He fell in love with her on the spot , and kneeling at her feet , he implored her to become his wife .
11 The lovely girl accepted his proposal gladly ; but at the same time she warned him that she could never come up to the world above till her mother , the old witch , was dead .
12 And she went on to tell him that the only way in which the old creature could be killed was with the sword that hung up in the castle ; but the sword was so heavy that no one could lift it .
13 Then the youth went into a room in the castle where everything was made of silver , and here he found another beautiful girl , the sister of his bride .
14 She was combing her silver hair , and every hair that fell on the ground rang out like pure metal .
15 The second girl handed him the sword , but though he tried with all his strength he could not lift it .
16 At last a third sister came to him and gave him a drop of something to drink , which she said would give him the needful strength .
17 He drank one drop , but still he could not lift the sword ; then he drank a second , and the sword began to move ; but only after he had drunk a third drop was he able to swing the sword over his head .
18 Then he hid himself in the castle and awaited the old witch 's arrival .
19 At last as it was beginning to grow dark she appeared .
20 She swooped down upon a big apple-tree , and after shaking some golden apples from it , she pounced down upon the earth .
21 As soon as her feet touched the XXXXX she became transformed from a hawk into a woman .	ground		abyss|apple-tree|girl|ground|hairs|love|skin|sword|torch|wife

1 `` Would she relent if Mrs. Allardyce were to call for you ? ''
2 Now , I have been cautiously sounding Aunt about Mrs. Allardyce , and I have discovered that she disapproves of her .
3 So I said : `` It would be useless .
4 I will ask Aunt if I may go , but I feel almost sure that she will not consent . ''
5 This evening , when Aunt was in an unusually genial mood , I plucked up heart of grace and asked her .
6 `` Marguer_ite , '' she said impressively , `` you know that I do not attend church here . ''
7 `` But , Aunt , '' I persisted , quakingly , `` could n't I go alone ?
8 It is not very far -- and I will be very careful . ''
9 Aunt merely gave me a look that said about forty distinct and separate things , and I was turning away in despair when Mrs. Saxby -- bless her heart -- said : `` I really think it would be no harm to let the child go . ''
10 As Aunt attaches great importance to Mrs. Saxby 's opinion , she looked at me relentingly and said : `` Well , I will think it over and let you know in the morning , Marguer_ite . ''
11 Now , everything depends on the sort of humour Aunt is in in the morning .
12 July Twentieth .
13 This morning was perfect , and after breakfast Aunt said , condescendingly : `` I think you may attend church if you wish , Marguer_ite .
14 Remember that I expect you to conduct yourself with becoming prudence and modesty . ''
15 I flew upstairs and pulled my prettiest dress out of my trunk .
16 It is a delicate , shimmering grey stuff with pearly tints about it .
17 Every time I get anything new , Aunt Martha and I have a battle royal over it .
18 I verily believe that Aunt would like me to dress in the fashions in vogue in her youth .
19 There is always a certain flavour of old-fashionedness about my gowns and hats .
20 Connie used to say that it was delicious and gave me a piquant uniqueness -- a certain unlikeness to other people that possessed a positive charm .
21 That is only XXXXX 's view of it , however .	Connie		Connie|charm|everything|gowns|harm|look|morning|prudence|things|uniqueness

1 He had hardly lost sight of his gaunt grey friend when he heard growls and snarls in the thicket close to him , and before he had time to think he found himself surrounded by the most dreadful-looking creatures .
2 On one side he saw the glittering eye of a cruel tiger , on the other the gleaming teeth of a great she-wolf ; here a huge bear growled fiercely , and there a horrible snake coiled itself in the grass at his feet .
3 But Iwanich did not forget the old man 's advice , and quickly put his hand into the bag and took out as many bread-crumbs as he could hold in his hand at a time .
4 He threw them to the beasts , but soon the bag grew lighter and lighter , and the Prince began to feel a little frightened .
5 And now the last crumb was gone , and the hungry beasts thronged round him , greedy for fresh prey .
6 Then he seized the hare and threw it to them .
7 No sooner did the little creature feel itself on the ground than it lay back its ears and flew through the wood like an arrow from a bow , closely pursued by the wild beasts , and the Prince was left alone .
8 He looked at his ring , and when he saw that it sparkled as brightly as ever he went straight on through the forest .
9 He had n't gone very far when he saw a most extraordinary looking man coming towards him .
10 He was not more than three feet high , his legs were quite crooked , and all his body was covered with prickles like a hedgehog .
11 Two lions walked with him , fastened to his side by the two ends of his long beard .
12 He stopped the Prince and asked him in a harsh voice : ` Are you the man who has just fed my body-guard ? '
13 Iwanich was so startled that he could hardly reply , but the little man continued : ' I am most grateful to you for your kindness ; what can I give you as a reward ? '
14 ` All I ask , ' replied Iwanich , ` is , that I should be allowed to go through this wood in safety . '
15 ` Most certainly , ' answered the little man ; ` and for greater security I will give you one of my lions as a protector .
16 But when you leave this wood and come near a palace which does not belong to my domain , let the lion go , in order that he may not fall into the hands of an enemy and be killed . '
17 With these words he loosened the lion from his beard and bade the beast guard the youth carefully .
18 With this new protector Iwanich wandered on through the forest , and though he came upon a great many more wolves , hyenas , leopards , and other wild beasts , they always kept at a respectful distance when they saw what sort of an escort the Prince had with him .
19 Iwanich hurried through the wood as quickly as his legs would carry him , but , nevertheless , hour after hour went by and not a trace of a green field or a human habitation met his eyes .
20 At length , towards evening , the mass of trees grew more transparent , and through the interlaced branches a wide plain was visible .
21 At the exit of the wood the XXXXX stood still , and the Prince took leave of him , having first thanked him warmly for his kind protection .	lion		beasts|bow|creature|friend|hand|legs|lion|man|side|wood

1 He wished the maiden would let him have it in his hand , but he did not quite like to ask her to do so , and after a while she put it back into the box .
2 A few days after they were again speaking of the magic ring , and the youth said , ' I do not think it possible that the ring can have all the power you say it has . '
3 Then the maiden opened the box and took the ring out , and it glittered as she held it like the clearest sunbeam .
4 She put it on the middle finger of her left hand , and told the youth to take a knife and try as hard as he could to cut her with it , for he would not be able to hurt her .
5 He was unwilling at first , but the maiden insisted .
6 Then he tried , at first only in play , and then seriously , to strike her with the knife , but an invisible wall of iron seemed to be between them , and the maiden stood before him laughing and unhurt .
7 Then she put the ring on her third finger , and in an instant she had vanished from his eyes .
8 Presently she was beside him again laughing , and holding the ring between her fingers .
9 ` Do let me try , ' said the youth , ` whether I can do these wonderful things . '
10 The maiden , suspecting no treachery , gave him the magic ring .
11 The youth pretended to have forgotten what to do , and asked what finger he must put the ring on so that no sharp weapon could hurt him ? '
12 ` Oh , the middle finger of your left hand , ' the maiden answered , laughing .
13 She took the knife and tried to strike the youth , and he even tried to cut himself with it , but found it impossible .
14 Then he asked the maiden to show him how to split stones and rocks with the help of the ring .
15 So she led him into a courtyard where stood a great boulder-stone .
16 ` Now , ' she said , ` put the ring upon the thumb of your left hand , and you will see how strong that hand has become .
17 The youth did so , and found to his astonishment that with a single blow of his fist the stone flew into a thousand pieces .
18 Then the youth bethought him that he who does not use his luck when he has it is a fool , and that this was a chance which once lost might never return .
19 So while they stood laughing at the shattered stone he placed the ring , as if in play , upon the third finger of his left hand .
20 ` Now , ' said the maiden , ` you are invisible to me until you take the ring off again . '
21 But the youth had no mind to do that ; on the contrary , he went farther off , then put the ring on the little finger of his left XXXXX , and soared into the air like a bird .	hand		box|eyes|fingers|fist|hand|maiden|rocks|stones|things|thumb

1 So the youth went with her , and soon they reached a beautiful garden , where stood a splendid house , which glittered in the moonlight as if it was all built out of gold and silver .
2 When the youth entered he found many splendid chambers , each one finer than the last .
3 Hundreds of tapers burnt upon golden candlesticks , and shed a light like the brightest day .
4 At length they reached a chamber where a table was spread with the most costly dishes .
5 At the table were placed two chairs , one of silver , the other of gold .
6 The maiden seated herself upon the golden chair , and offered the silver one to her companion .
7 They were served by maidens dressed in white , whose feet made no sound as they moved about , and not a word was spoken during the meal .
8 Afterwards the youth and the Witch-maiden conversed pleasantly together , until a woman , dressed in red , came in to remind them that it was bedtime .
9 The youth was now shown into another room , containing a silken bed with down cushions , where he slept delightfully , yet he seemed to hear a voice near his bed which repeated to him , ` Remember to give no blood ! '
10 The next morning the maiden asked him whether he would not like to stay with her always in this beautiful place , and as he did not answer immediately , she continued : ` You see how I always remain young and beautiful , and I am under no one 's orders , but can do just what I like , so that I have never thought of marrying before .
11 But from the moment I saw you I took a fancy to you , so if you agree , we might be married and might live together like princes , because I have great riches . '
12 The youth could not but be tempted with the beautiful maiden 's offer , but he remembered how the birds had called her the witch , and their warning always sounded in his ears .
13 Therefore he answered cautiously , ` Do not be angry , dear maiden , if I do not decide immediately on this important matter .
14 Give me a few days to consider before we come to an understanding . '
15 ` Why not ? '
16 answered the maiden .
17 ` Take some weeks to consider if you like , and take counsel with your own heart . '
18 And to make the time pass pleasantly , she took the youth over every part of her beautiful dwelling , and showed him all her splendid treasures .
19 But these treasures were all produced by enchantment , for the maiden could make anything she wished appear by the help of King Solomon 's signet ring ; only none of these things remained fixed ; they passed away like the wind without leaving a trace behind .
20 But the youth did not know this ; he thought they were all real .
21 One day the XXXXX took him into a secret chamber , where a little gold box was standing on a silver table .	maiden		chamber|dishes|house|maiden|matter|orders|part|ring|silver|trace

1 Perhaps it is old Zaharrof 's ghost .
2 He was lost last year in the big gale . ''
3 `` I 'm not going near him , '' said Patalamon .
4 `` He 's unlucky .
5 Do you really think he is old Zaharrof come back ?
6 I owe him for some gulls ' eggs . ''
7 `` Do n't look at him , '' said Kerick .
8 `` Head off that drove of four-year-olds .
9 The men ought to skin two hundred to-day , but it 's the beginning of the season and they are new to the work .
10 A hundred will do .
11 Quick ! ''
12 Patalamon rattled a pair of seal 's shoulder bones in front of a herd of holluschickie and they stopped dead , puffing and blowing .
13 Then he stepped near and the seals began to move , and Kerick headed them inland , and they never tried to get back to their companions .
14 Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of seals watched them being driven , but they went on playing just the same .
15 Kotick was the only one who asked questions , and none of his companions could tell him anything , except that the men always drove seals in that way for six weeks or two months of every year .
16 `` I am going to follow , '' he said , and his eyes nearly popped out of his head as he shuffled along in the wake of the herd .
17 `` The white seal is coming after us , '' cried Patalamon .
18 `` That 's the first time a seal has ever come to the killing-grounds alone . ''
19 `` Hsh !
20 Do n't look behind you , '' said Kerick .
21 `` It is Zaharrof 's XXXXX !	ghost		anything|beginning|eggs|ghost|men|none|one|questions|to-day|year

1 That was the end of the review , and the regiments went off to their camps in the rain , and an infantry band struck up with -- The animals went in two by two , Hurrah !
2 The animals went in two by two , The elephant and the battery mul ' , and they all got into the Ark For to get out of the rain !
3 Then I heard an old grizzled , long-haired Central Asian chief , who had come down with the Amir , asking questions of a native officer .
4 `` Now , '' said he , `` in what manner was this wonderful thing done ? ''
5 And the officer answered , `` An order was given , and they obeyed . ''
6 `` But are the beasts as wise as the men ? ''
7 said the chief .
8 `` They obey , as the men do .
9 Mule , horse , elephant , or bullock , he obeys his driver , and the driver his sergeant , and the sergeant his lieutenant , and the lieutenant his captain , and the captain his major , and the major his colonel , and the colonel his brigadier commanding three regiments , and the brigadier the general , who obeys the Viceroy , who is the servant of the Empress .
10 Thus it is done . ''
11 `` Would it were so in Afghanistan ! ''
12 said the chief , `` for there we obey only our own wills . ''
13 `` And for that reason , '' said the native officer , twirling his mustache , `` your Amir whom you do not obey must come here and take orders from our Viceroy . ''
14 Parade Song of the Camp Animals ELEPHANTS OF THE GUN TEAMS We lent to Alexander the strength of Hercules , The wisdom of our foreheads , the cunning of our knees ; We bowed our necks to service : they ne'er were loosed again , -- Make way there -- way for the ten-foot teams Of the Forty-Pounder train !
15 GUN BULLOCKS Those heroes in their harnesses avoid a cannon-ball , And what they know of powder upsets them one and all ; Then we come into action and tug the guns again -- Make way there -- way for the twenty yoke Of the Forty-Pounder train !
16 CAVALRY HORSES By the brand on my shoulder , the finest of tunes Is played by the Lancers , Hussars , and Dragoons , And it 's sweeter than `` Stables '' or `` Water '' to me -- The Cavalry Canter of `` Bonnie Dundee '' !
17 Then feed us and break us and handle and groom , And give us good riders and plenty of room , And launch us in column of squadron and see The way of the war-horse to `` Bonnie Dundee '' !
18 SCREW-GUN MULES As me and my companions were scrambling up a hill , The path was lost in rolling stones , but we went forward still ; For we can wriggle and climb , my lads , and turn up everywhere , Oh , it 's our delight on a mountain height , with a leg or two to spare !
19 Good luck to every sergeant , then , that lets us pick our road ; Bad luck to all the driver-men that can not pack a load : For we can wriggle and climb , my lads , and turn up everywhere , Oh , it 's our delight on a mountain height , with a leg or two to spare !
20 COMMISSARIAT CAMELS We have n't a camelty tune of our own To help us trollop along , But every neck is a hair trombone -LRB- Rtt-ta-ta-ta !
21 is a XXXXX trombone ! -RRB-	hair		Mule|Viceroy|animals|captain|colonel|companions|hair|questions|servant|wills

1 How shall we travel about together without being odious the one to the other ? '
2 ` Do n't worry about that , ' replied the girl , ` for I 've thought it all over , and have settled on a plan which will make us each able to bear with the other !
3 See , I have had a fur cloak made for each of us , and if we put them on I shall not feel the heat so much nor you the cold . '
4 So they put on the fur cloaks , and set out cheerfully on their way , and for the first time in their lives quite happy in each other 's company .
5 For a long time the Fire-son and the Snow-daughter wandered through the world , and when at the beginning of winter they came to a big wood they determined to stay there till spring .
6 The Fire-son built himself a hut where he always kept up a huge fire , while his sister with very few clothes on stayed outside night and day .
7 Now it happened one day that the King of the land held a hunt in this wood , and saw the Snow-daughter wandering about in the open air .
8 He wondered very much who the beautiful girl clad in such garments could be , and he stopped and spoke to her .
9 He soon learnt that she could not stand heat , and that her brother could not endure cold .
10 The King was so charmed by the Snow-daughter , that he asked her to be his wife .
11 The girl consented , and the wedding was held with much state .
12 The King had a huge house of ice made for his wife underground , so that even in summer it did not melt .
13 But for his brother-in-law he had a house built with huge ovens all round it , that were kept heated all day and night .
14 The Fire-son was delighted , but the perpetual heat in which he lived made his body so hot , that it was dangerous to go too close to him .
15 One day the King gave a great feast , and asked his brother-in-law among the other guests .
16 The Fire-son did not appear till everyone had assembled , and when he did , everyone fled outside to the open air , so intense was the heat he gave forth .
17 Then the King was very angry and said , ` If I had known what a lot of trouble you would have been , I would never have taken you into my house . '
18 Then the Fire-son replied with a laugh , ` Do n't be angry , dear brother !
19 I love heat and my sister loves cold -- come here and let me embrace you , and then I 'll go home at once . '
20 And before the King had time to reply , the Fire-son seized him in a tight embrace .
21 The King screamed aloud in agony , and when his wife , the Snow-daughter , who had taken refuge from her XXXXX in the next room , hurried to him , the King lay dead on the ground burnt to a cinder .	brother		brother|brother-in-law|girl|heat|home|house|lives|state|wood|world

1 On the following morning he led the mare and foal to the fields as usual , but bound a cord round them both which he kept in his hand .
2 But after a few hours , by the magic arts of the old witch , he was overpowered by sleep , and the mare and foal escaped and did as they had been told to do .
3 The Prince did not awake till late in the evening ; and when he did , he found , to his horror , that the horses had disappeared .
4 Filled with despair , he cursed the moment when he had entered the service of the cruel witch , and already he saw his head sticking up on the sharp spike beside the others .
5 Then he suddenly remembered the fish 's scale , which , with the eagle 's feather and the fox 's hairs , he always carried about with him .
6 He drew the scale from his pocket , and hurrying to the river he threw it in .
7 In a minute the grateful fish swam towards the bank on which Iwanich was standing , and said : ` What do you command , my friend and benefactor ? '
8 The Prince replied : ' I had to look after a mare and foal , and they have run away from me and have hidden themselves in the river ; if you wish to save my life drive them back to the land . '
9 ` Wait a moment , ' answered the fish , ` and I and my friends will soon drive them out of the water . '
10 With these words the creature disappeared into the depths of the stream .
11 Almost immediately a rushing hissing sound was heard in the waters , the waves dashed against the banks , the foam was tossed into the air , and the two horses leapt suddenly on to the dry land , trembling and shaking with fear .
12 Iwanich sprang at once on to the mare 's back , seized the foal by its bridle , and hastened home in the highest spirits .
13 When the witch saw the Prince bringing the horses home she could hardly conceal her wrath , and as soon as she had placed Iwanich 's supper before him she stole away again to the stables .
14 The Prince followed her , and heard her scolding the beasts harshly for not having hidden themselves better .
15 She bade them wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep and then to hide themselves in the clouds , and to remain there till she called .
16 If they did not do as she told them she would beat them till they bled .
17 The next morning , after Iwanich had led his horses to the fields , he fell once more into a magic sleep .
18 The horses at once ran away and hid themselves in the clouds , which hung down from the mountains in soft billowy masses .
19 When the Prince awoke and found that both the mare and the foal had disappeared , he bethought him at once of the eagle , and taking the feather out of his pocket he blew it into the air .
20 In a moment the bird swooped down beside him and asked : ` What do you wish me to do ? '
21 ` My mare and foal , ' replied the Prince , ` have run away from me , and have hidden themselves in the XXXXX ; if you wish to save my life , restore both animals to me . '	clouds		air|clouds|creature|fields|hairs|horror|mare|moment|morning|words

1 cried another .
2 ` How ugly she is ! '
3 said all the lady chafers -- and yet Thumbelina was really very pretty .
4 The cockchafer who had stolen her knew this very well ; but when he heard all the ladies saying she was ugly , he began to think so too , and would not keep her ; she might go wherever she liked .
5 So he flew down from the tree with her and put her on a daisy .
6 There she sat and wept , because she was so ugly that the cockchafer would have nothing to do with her ; and yet she was the most beautiful creature imaginable , so soft and delicate , like the loveliest rose-leaf .
7 The whole summer poor little Thumbelina lived alone in the great wood .
8 She plaited a bed for herself of blades of grass , and hung it up under a clover-leaf , so that she was protected from the rain ; she gathered honey from the flowers for food , and drank the dew on the leaves every morning .
9 Thus the summer and autumn passed , but then came winter -- the long , cold winter .
10 All the birds who had sung so sweetly about her had flown away ; the trees shed their leaves , the flowers died ; the great clover-leaf under which she had lived curled up , and nothing remained of it but the withered stalk .
11 She was terribly cold , for her clothes were ragged , and she herself was so small and thin .
12 Poor little Thumbelina !
13 she would surely be frozen to death .
14 It began to snow , and every snow-flake that fell on her was to her as a whole shovelful thrown on one of us , for we are so big , and she was only an inch high .
15 She wrapt herself round in a dead leaf , but it was torn in the middle and gave her no warmth ; she was trembling with cold .
16 Just outside the wood where she was now living lay a great corn-field .
17 But the corn had been gone a long time ; only the dry , bare stubble was left standing in the frozen ground .
18 This made a forest for her to wander about in .
19 All at once she came across the door of a field-mouse , who had a little hole under a corn-stalk .
20 There the mouse lived warm and snug , with a store-room full of corn , a splendid kitchen and dining-room .
21 Poor little Thumbelina went up to the XXXXX and begged for a little piece of barley , for she had not had anything to eat for the last two days .	door		death|dining-room|door|ground|ladies|nothing|time|trees|warmth|wood

1 What shall I do with them ? '
2 Then the Hunter said that to the old donkey , which was the witch , three beatings and one meal ; to the younger one , which was the servant , one beating and three meals ; and to the youngest one , which was the maiden , no beating and three meals ; for he could not find it in his heart to let the maiden be beaten .
3 Then he went back into the castle , and he found there all that he wanted .
4 After a couple of days the miller came and said that he must tell him that the old donkey which was to have three beatings and only one meal had died .
5 ` The two others , ' he added , ` are certainly not dead , and get their three meals every day , but they are so sad that they can not last much longer . '
6 Then the Hunter took pity on them , laid aside his anger , and told the miller to drive them back again .
7 And when they came he gave them some of the good cabbage to eat , so that they became human again .
8 Then the beautiful maiden fell on her knees before him , saying , ` Oh , my dearest , forgive me the ill I have done you !
9 My mother compelled me to do it ; it was against my will , for I love you dearly .
10 Your wishing-cloak is hanging in a cupboard , and as for the bird-heart I will make a drink and give it back to you . '
11 But he changed his mind , and said , ` Keep it ; it makes no difference , for I will take you to be my own dear true wife . '
12 And the wedding was celebrated , and they lived happy together till death .
13 THE LITTLE GREEN FROG -LRB- 8 -RRB- -LRB- 8 -RRB- Cabinet des Fees .
14 In a part of the world whose name I forget lived once upon a time two kings , called Peridor and Diamantino .
15 They were cousins as well as neighbours , and both were under the protection of the fairies ; though it is only fair to say that the fairies did not love them half so well as their wives did .
16 Now it often happens that as princes can generally manage to get their own way it is harder for them to be good than it is for common people .
17 So it was with Peridor and Diamantino ; but of the two , the fairies declared that Diamantino was much the worst ; indeed , he behaved so badly to his wife Aglantino , that the fairies would not allow him to live any longer ; and he died , leaving behind him a little daughter .
18 As she was an only child , of course this little girl was the heiress of the kingdom , but , being still only a baby , her mother , the widow of Diamantino , was proclaimed regent .
19 The Queen-dowager was wise and good , and tried her best to make her people happy .
20 The only thing she had to vex her was the absence of her daughter ; for the fairies , for reasons of their own , determined to bring up the little Princess Serpentine among themselves .
21 As to the other King , he was really fond of his XXXXX , Queen Constance , but he often grieved her by his thoughtless ways , and in order to punish him for his carelessness , the fairies caused her to die quite suddenly .	wife		baby|cabbage|child|death|heiress|mind|neighbours|reasons|way|wife

1 Mrs. Ralston untied the cover of the big basket .
2 Then the two of them , moving as stealthily as if engaged in a burglary , transferred the contents to the table .
3 Mr. Ralston got out a small pencil and a note book , and by dint of comparing the names attached to the gifts on the table they managed to divide theirs up pretty evenly among the little Josephs .
4 When all was done Mrs. Ralston said , `` Now , I 'm going to spread that tablecloth carelessly over the table .
5 We will be going before daylight , probably , and in the hurry of getting off I hope that Mr. and Mrs. Joseph will not notice the difference till we 're gone . ''
6 It fell out as Mrs. Ralston had planned .
7 The dawn broke fine and clear over a vast white world .
8 Mr. and Mrs. Joseph were early astir ; breakfast for the storm-stayed travellers was cooked and eaten by lamplight ; then the horse and sleigh were brought to the door and Mr. Ralston carried out his empty basket .
9 `` I expect the trail will be heavy , '' he said , `` but I guess we 'd get to Lindsay in time for dinner , anyway .
10 Much obliged for your kindness , Mr. Joseph .
11 When you and Mrs. Joseph come to town we shall hope to have a chance to return it .
12 Good-bye and a merry Christmas to you all . ''
13 When Mrs. Joseph went back to the kitchen her eyes fell on the heaped-up table in the corner .
14 `` Why-y ! ''
15 she said , and snatched off the cover .
16 One look she gave , and then this funny little mother began to cry ; but they were happy tears .
17 Mr. Joseph came too , and looked and whistled .
18 There really seemed to be everything on that table that the hearts of children could desire -- three pairs of skates , a fur cap and collar , a dainty workbasket , half a dozen gleaming new books , a writing desk , a roll of stuff that looked like a new dress , a pair of fur-topped kid gloves just Mollie 's size , and a china cup and saucer .
19 All these were to be seen at the first glance ; and in one corner of the table was a big box filled with candies and nuts and raisins , and in the other a doll with curling golden hair and brown eyes , dressed in `` real '' clothes and with all her wardrobe in a trunk beside her .
20 Pinned to her dress was a leaf from Mr. Ralston 's notebook with Maggie 's name written on it .
21 `` Well , this is XXXXX with a vengeance , '' said Mr. Joseph .	Christmas		Christmas|Mr.|burglary|contents|dawn|door|everything|kindness|mother|table

1 His concluding sentence was quite unheeded by Galletly .
2 `` Min Palmer 's the worst woman in Rykman 's Corner -- or out of it .
3 She always was an odd one .
4 I mind her when she was a girl -- a saucy , black-eyed baggage she was !
5 Handsome , some folks called her .
6 I never c 'd see it .
7 Her people were a queer crowd and Min was never brung up right -- jest let run wild all her life .
8 Well , Rod Palmer took to dancin ' attendance on her .
9 Rod was a worthless scamp .
10 Old Palmer was well off and Rod was his only child , but this Rose lived there and kept house for them after Mis ' Palmer died .
11 She was a quiet , well-behaved little creetur .
12 Folks said the old man wanted Rod to marry her -- dunno if 't was so or not .
13 In the end , howsomever , he had to marry Min .
14 Her brother got after him with a horse-whip , ye understand .
15 Old Palmer was furious but he had to give in and Rod brought her home .
16 She was a bit sobered down by her trouble and lived quiet and sullen-like at first .
17 Her and Rod fought like cat and dog .
18 Rose married Osh Fuller , a worthless , drunken fellow .
19 He died in a year or so and left Rose and her baby without a roof over their heads .
20 Then old Palmer went and brought her home .
21 He set great store by Rose and he XXXXX ` d n't bear Min .	c		Palmer|brother|c|cat|girl|man|people|roof|saucy|woman

1 Yarrh !
2 Grr !
3 Arrh !
4 Somebody 's catching it now !
5 ALL THE BEASTS TOGETHER Children of the Camp are we , Serving each in his degree ; Children of the yoke and goad , Pack and harness , pad and load .
6 See our line across the plain , Like a heel-rope bent again , Reaching , writhing , rolling far , Sweeping all away to war !
7 While the men that walk beside , Dusty , silent , heavy-eyed , Can not tell why we or they March and suffer day by day .
8 I JIMMY SKUNK IS PUZZLED Old Mother West Wind had just come down from the Purple Hills and turned loose her children , the Merry Little Breezes , from the big bag in which she had been carrying them .
9 They were very lively and very merry as they danced and raced across the Green Meadows in all directions , for it was good to be back there once more .
10 Old Mother West Wind almost sighed as she watched them for a few minutes .
11 She felt that she would like to join them .
12 Always the springtime made her feel this way , -- young , mad , carefree , and happy .
13 But she had work to do .
14 She had to turn the windmill to pump water for Farmer Brown 's cows , and this was only one of many mills standing idle as they waited for her .
15 So she puffed her cheeks out and started about her business .
16 Jimmy Skunk sat at the top of the hill that overlooks the Green Meadows and watched her out of sight .
17 Then he started to amble down the Lone Little Path to look for some beetles .
18 He was ambling along in his lazy way , for you know he never hurries , when he heard some one puffing and blowing behind him .
19 Of course he turned to see who it was , and he was greatly surprised when he discovered Old Mr. Toad .
20 Yes , Sir , it was Old Mr. Toad , and he seemed in a great hurry .
21 He was quite short of breath , but he was hopping along in the most determined XXXXX as if he were in a great hurry to get somewhere .	way		BEASTS|Mr.|Sir|course|directions|hurry|puffing|sight|springtime|way

1 cried Alice , jumping up and down in an agony of terror .
2 ` Oh , there goes his PRECIOUS nose ' ; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it , and very nearly carried it off .
3 ` If everybody minded their own business , ' the Duchess said in a hoarse growl , ` the world would go round a deal faster than it does . '
4 ` Which would NOT be an advantage , ' said Alice , who felt very glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge .
5 ` Just think of what work it would make with the day and night !
6 You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis -- ' ` Talking of axes , ' said the Duchess , ` chop off her head ! '
7 Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook , to see if she meant to take the hint ; but the cook was busily stirring the soup , and seemed not to be listening , so she went on again : ` Twenty-four hours , I THINK ; or is it twelve ?
8 I -- ' ` Oh , do n't bother ME , ' said the Duchess ; ' I never could abide figures ! '
9 And with that she began nursing her child again , singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so , and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line : ` Speak roughly to your little boy , And beat him when he sneezes : He only does it to annoy , Because he knows it teases . '
10 CHORUS .
11 -LRB- In which the cook and the baby joined -RRB- : -- ` Wow !
12 wow !
13 wow ! '
14 While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song , she kept tossing the baby violently up and down , and the poor little thing howled so , that Alice could hardly hear the words : -- ' I speak severely to my boy , I beat him when he sneezes ; For he can thoroughly enjoy The pepper when he pleases ! '
15 CHORUS .
16 ` Wow !
17 wow !
18 wow ! '
19 ` Here !
20 you may nurse it a bit , if you like ! '
21 the Duchess said to Alice , flinging the XXXXX at her as she spoke . '	baby		advantage|axes|axis|baby|bit|day|figures|head|hint|knowledge

1 groaned Little Klaus up in the shed , when he saw the good food disappearing .
2 ` Is anybody up there ? '
3 asked the farmer , catching sight of Little Klaus .
4 ` Why are you lying there ?
5 Come with me into the house . '
6 Then Little Klaus told him how he had lost his way , and begged to be allowed to spend the night there .
7 ` Yes , certainly , ' said the farmer ; ` but we must first have something to eat ! '
8 The wife received them both very kindly , spread a long table , and gave them a large plate of porridge .
9 The farmer was hungry , and ate with a good appetite ; but Little Klaus could not help thinking of the delicious dishes of fish and roast meats and cakes which he knew were in the oven .
10 Under the table at his feet he had laid the sack with the horse-skin in it , for , as we know , he was going to the town to sell it .
11 The porridge did not taste good to him , so he trod upon his sack , and the dry skin in the sack squeaked loudly .
12 ` Hush ! '
13 said Little Klaus to his sack , at the same time treading on it again so that it squeaked even louder than before .
14 ` Hallo !
15 what have you got in your sack ? '
16 asked the farmer .
17 ` Oh , it is a wizard ! '
18 said Little Klaus .
19 ` He says we should not eat porridge , for he has conjured the whole oven full of roast meats and fish and cakes . '
20 ` Goodness me ! '
21 said the farmer ; and opening the XXXXX he saw all the delicious , tempting dishes his wife had hidden there , but which he now believed the wizard in the sack had conjured up for them .	oven		Goodness|oven|porridge|shed|skin|thinking|time|town|wife|wizard

1 Immediately the charm worked , and she became a donkey , and ran out to join the old witch , and the dish with the salad in it fell to the ground .
2 In the meantime , the messenger was sitting with the lovely maiden , and as no one came with the salad , and she wanted very much to taste it , she said , ' I do n't know where the salad is . '
3 Then thought the Hunter , ` The cabbage must have already begun to work . '
4 And he said , ' I will go to the kitchen and fetch it myself . '
5 When he came there he saw the two donkeys running about in the courtyard , but the salad was lying on the ground .
6 ` That 's all right , ' said he ; ` two have had their share ! '
7 And lifting the remaining leaves up , he laid them on the dish and brought them to the maiden . '
8 I am bringing you the delicious food my own self , ' he said , ` so that you need not wait any longer . '
9 Then she ate , and , as the others had done , she at once lost her human form , and ran as a donkey into the yard .
10 When the Hunter had washed his face , so that the changed ones might know him , he went into the yard , saying , ` Now you shall receive a reward for your faithlessness . '
11 He tied them all three with a rope , and drove them away till he came to a mill .
12 He knocked at the window , and the miller put his head out and asked what he wanted . '
13 I have three tiresome animals , ' he answered , ` which I do n't want to keep any longer .
14 If you will take them , give them food and stabling , and do as I tell you with them , I will pay you as much as you want . '
15 The miller replied , ` Why not ?
16 What shall I do with them ? '
17 Then the Hunter said that to the old donkey , which was the witch , three beatings and one meal ; to the younger one , which was the servant , one beating and three meals ; and to the youngest one , which was the maiden , no beating and three meals ; for he could not find it in his heart to let the maiden be beaten .
18 Then he went back into the castle , and he found there all that he wanted .
19 After a couple of days the miller came and said that he must tell him that the old donkey which was to have three beatings and only one meal had died .
20 ` The two others , ' he added , ` are certainly not dead , and get their three meals every day , but they are so sad that they can not last much longer . '
21 Then the Hunter took pity on them , laid aside his anger , and told the XXXXX to drive them back again .	miller		beating|castle|courtyard|donkey|ground|meantime|miller|one|rope|servant

1 Mr. Blacksnake did n't wait .
2 No , Sir , he did n't wait .
3 He suddenly turned and glided back up the Crooked Little Path , hissing angrily .
4 Jimmy followed him a little way , and then he went back to Old Mr. Toad .
5 `` Oh , '' panted Mr. Toad , `` you came just in time !
6 I could n't have hopped another hop . ''
7 `` I guess I did , '' replied Jimmy .
8 `` Now you get your breath and come along with me . ''
9 And Old Mr. Toad did .
10 XIX OLD MR. TOAD GETS HIS STOMACH FULL Pray do not tip your nose in scorn At things which others eat , For things to you not good at all To others are most sweet .
11 There are ants , for instance .
12 You would n't want to eat them even if you were dreadfully hungry .
13 But Old Mr. Toad and Buster Bear think there is nothing much nicer .
14 Now Buster Bear had found Old Mr. Toad catching ants , one at a time , as he kept watch beside their home , and it had pleased Buster to find some one else who liked ants .
15 Right away he invited Old Mr. Toad to dine with him .
16 But poor Old Mr. Toad was frightened almost to death when he heard the deep , grumbly-rumbly voice of Buster Bear , for he had been so busy watching the ants that he had n't seen Buster coming .
17 He fell right over on his back , which was n't at all dignified , and made Buster Bear laugh .
18 That frightened Mr. Toad more than ever .
19 You see he did n't have the least doubt in the world that Buster Bear meant to eat him , and when Buster invited him to dinner , he was sure that that was just a joke on Buster 's part .
20 But there was no way to escape , and after a little Old Mr. Toad thought it best to be polite , because , you know , it always pays to be polite .
21 So he said in a very faint XXXXX that he would be pleased to dine with Buster .	voice		back|death|dinner|doubt|hop|instance|joke|laugh|voice|way

1 Now , as the girl was sitting at her distaff , weeping bitterly because she could not spin , she heard the sound of hundreds of little feet , and from every hole and corner in the hut mice came pattering along the floor , squeaking and saying : ` Little girl , why are your eyes so red ?
2 If you want help , then give us some bread . '
3 And the girl gave them the bread that her grandmother had given her .
4 Then the mice told her that the witch had a cat , and the cat was very fond of ham ; if she would give the cat her ham , it would show her the way out of the wood , and in the meantime they would spin the yarn for her .
5 So the girl set out to look for the cat , and , as she was hunting about , she met her brother , in great trouble because he could not carry water from the well in a sieve , as it came pouring out as fast as he put it in .
6 And as she was trying to comfort him they heard a rustling of wings , and a flight of wrens alighted on the ground beside them .
7 And the wrens said : ` Give us some crumbs , then you need not grieve .
8 For you 'll find that water will stay in the sieve . '
9 Then the twins crumbled their bread on the ground , and the wrens pecked it , and chirruped and chirped .
10 And when they had eaten the last crumb they told the boy to fill up the holes of the sieve with clay , and then to draw water from the well .
11 So he did what they said , and carried the sieve full of water into the hut without spilling a drop .
12 When they entered the hut the cat was curled up on the floor .
13 So they stroked her , and fed her with ham , and said to her : ` Pussy , grey pussy , tell us how we are to get away from the witch ? '
14 Then the cat thanked them for the ham , and gave them a pocket-handkerchief and a comb , and told them that when the witch pursued them , as she certainly would , all they had to do was to throw the handkerchief on the ground and run as fast as they could .
15 As soon as the handkerchief touched the ground a deep , broad river would spring up , which would hinder the witch 's progress .
16 If she managed to get across it , they must throw the comb behind them and run for their lives , for where the comb fell a dense forest would start up , which would delay the witch so long that they would be able to get safely away .
17 The cat had scarcely finished speaking when the witch returned to see if the children had fulfilled their tasks .
18 ` Well , you have done well enough for to-day , ' she grumbled ; ` but to-morrow you 'll have something more difficult to do , and if you do n't do it well , you pampered brats , straight into the oven you go . '
19 Half-dead with fright , and trembling in every limb , the poor children lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dared not close their eyes , and scarcely ventured to breathe .
20 In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips .
21 Then the XXXXX left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood .	witch		boy|floor|girl|grandmother|help|hut|water|way|well|witch

1 For a moment she repented -- she would stay -- she could not go .
2 Then over the harbour flashed out the lights of Dalveigh .
3 The life behind them glittered , allured , beckoned .
4 Nay , she must go on -- she had made her choice .
5 There was no turning back now .
6 * * * * * Nora Shelley went away with the Camerons , and Dalveigh was deserted .
7 Winter came down on Racicot Harbour , and the colony of fisher folk at its head gave themselves over to the idleness of the season -- a time for lounging and gossipping and long hours of lazy contentment smoking in the neighbours ' chimney corners , when tales were told of the sea and the fishing .
8 The Harbour laid itself out to be sociable in winter .
9 There was no time for that in summer .
10 People had to work eighteen hours out of the twenty-four then .
11 In the winter there was spare time to laugh and quarrel , woo and wed and -- were a man so minded -- dream , as did Rob Fletcher in his loneliness .
12 In a Racicot winter much was made of small things .
13 The arrival of Nora Shelley 's weekly letter to her father and mother was an event in the village .
14 The post-mistress in the Cove store spread the news that it had come , and that night the Shelley kitchen would be crowded .
15 Isobel Shelley , Nora 's younger sister , read the letter aloud by virtue of having gone to school long enough to be able to pronounce the words and tell where the places named were situated .
16 The Camerons had spent the autumn in New York and had then gone south for the winter .
17 Nora wrote freely of her new life .
18 In the beginning she admitted great homesickness , but after the first few letters she made no further mention of that .
19 She wrote little of herself , but she described fully the places she had visited , the people she had met , the wonderful things she had seen .
20 She sent affectionate messages to all her old friends and asked after all her old interests .
21 But the letters came to be more and more like those of a stranger and one apart from the Racicot XXXXX , and the father and mother felt it .	life		Nay|autumn|event|homesickness|letters|life|mention|mother|summer|things

1 Tiger ! ''
2 What of the hunting , hunter bold ?
3 Brother , the watch was long and cold .
4 What of the quarry ye went to kill ?
5 Brother , he crops in the jungle still .
6 Where is the power that made your pride ?
7 Brother , it ebbs from my flank and side .
8 Where is the haste that ye hurry by ?
9 Brother , I go to my lair -- to die .
10 Now we must go back to the first tale .
11 When Mowgli left the wolf 's cave after the fight with the Pack at the Council Rock , he went down to the plowed lands where the villagers lived , but he would not stop there because it was too near to the jungle , and he knew that he had made at least one bad enemy at the Council .
12 So he hurried on , keeping to the rough road that ran down the valley , and followed it at a steady jog-trot for nearly twenty miles , till he came to a country that he did not know .
13 The valley opened out into a great plain dotted over with rocks and cut up by ravines .
14 At one end stood a little village , and at the other the thick jungle came down in a sweep to the grazing-grounds , and stopped there as though it had been cut off with a hoe .
15 All over the plain , cattle and buffaloes were grazing , and when the little boys in charge of the herds saw Mowgli they shouted and ran away , and the yellow pariah dogs that hang about every Indian village barked .
16 Mowgli walked on , for he was feeling hungry , and when he came to the village gate he saw the big thorn-bush that was drawn up before the gate at twilight , pushed to one side .
17 `` Umph ! ''
18 he said , for he had come across more than one such barricade in his night rambles after things to eat .
19 `` So men are afraid of the People of the Jungle here also . ''
20 He sat down by the gate , and when a man came out he stood up , opened his mouth , and pointed down it to show that he wanted food .
21 The XXXXX stared , and ran back up the one street of the village shouting for the priest , who was a big , fat man dressed in white , with a red and yellow mark on his forehead .	man		cattle|cave|crops|fight|grazing|man|men|power|road|watch

1 said the young mule .
2 `` You must , '' said the troop horse .
3 `` If you do n't trust your man , you may as well run away at once .
4 That 's what some of our horses do , and I do n't blame them .
5 As I was saying , it was n't Dick 's fault .
6 The man was lying on the ground , and I stretched myself not to tread on him , and he slashed up at me .
7 Next time I have to go over a man lying down I shall step on him -- hard . ''
8 `` H 'm ! ''
9 said Billy .
10 `` It sounds very foolish .
11 Knives are dirty things at any time .
12 The proper thing to do is to climb up a mountain with a well-balanced saddle , hang on by all four feet and your ears too , and creep and crawl and wriggle along , till you come out hundreds of feet above anyone else on a ledge where there 's just room enough for your hoofs .
13 Then you stand still and keep quiet -- never ask a man to hold your head , young un -- keep quiet while the guns are being put together , and then you watch the little poppy shells drop down into the tree-tops ever so far below . ''
14 `` Do n't you ever trip ? ''
15 said the troop-horse .
16 `` They say that when a mule trips you can split a hen 's ear , '' said Billy .
17 `` Now and again perhaps a badly packed saddle will upset a mule , but it 's very seldom .
18 I wish I could show you our business .
19 It 's beautiful .
20 Why , it took me three years to find out what the men were driving at .
21 The science of the XXXXX is never to show up against the sky line , because , if you do , you may get fired at .	thing		ear|ears|fault|feet|guns|hen|man|men|mule|thing

1 I hope they 'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time .
2 Dinah my dear !
3 I wish you were down here with me !
4 There are no mice in the air , I 'm afraid , but you might catch a bat , and that 's very like a mouse , you know .
5 But do cats eat bats , I wonder ? '
6 And here Alice began to get rather sleepy , and went on saying to herself , in a dreamy sort of way , ` Do cats eat bats ?
7 Do cats eat bats ? '
8 and sometimes , ` Do bats eat cats ? '
9 for , you see , as she could n't answer either question , it did n't much matter which way she put it .
10 She felt that she was dozing off , and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah , and saying to her very earnestly , ` Now , Dinah , tell me the truth : did you ever eat a bat ? '
11 when suddenly , thump !
12 thump !
13 down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves , and the fall was over .
14 Alice was not a bit hurt , and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment : she looked up , but it was all dark overhead ; before her was another long passage , and the White Rabbit was still in sight , hurrying down it .
15 There was not a moment to be lost : away went Alice like the wind , and was just in time to hear it say , as it turned a corner , ` Oh my ears and whiskers , how late it 's getting ! '
16 She was close behind it when she turned the corner , but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen : she found herself in a long , low hall , which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof .
17 There were doors all round the hall , but they were all locked ; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other , trying every door , she walked sadly down the middle , wondering how she was ever to get out again .
18 Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table , all made of solid glass ; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key , and Alice 's first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall ; but , alas !
19 either the locks were too large , or the key was too small , but at any rate it would not open any of them .
20 However , on the second time round , she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before , and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high : she tried the little golden key in the lock , and to her great delight it fitted !
21 Alice opened the XXXXX and found that it led into a small passage , not much larger than a rat-hole : she knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw .	door		Rabbit|bat|corner|door|doors|mice|mouse|question|rate|whiskers

1 Dinah my dear !
2 I wish you were down here with me !
3 There are no mice in the air , I 'm afraid , but you might catch a bat , and that 's very like a mouse , you know .
4 But do cats eat bats , I wonder ? '
5 And here Alice began to get rather sleepy , and went on saying to herself , in a dreamy sort of way , ` Do cats eat bats ?
6 Do cats eat bats ? '
7 and sometimes , ` Do bats eat cats ? '
8 for , you see , as she could n't answer either question , it did n't much matter which way she put it .
9 She felt that she was dozing off , and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah , and saying to her very earnestly , ` Now , Dinah , tell me the truth : did you ever eat a bat ? '
10 when suddenly , thump !
11 thump !
12 down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves , and the fall was over .
13 Alice was not a bit hurt , and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment : she looked up , but it was all dark overhead ; before her was another long passage , and the White Rabbit was still in sight , hurrying down it .
14 There was not a moment to be lost : away went Alice like the wind , and was just in time to hear it say , as it turned a corner , ` Oh my ears and whiskers , how late it 's getting ! '
15 She was close behind it when she turned the corner , but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen : she found herself in a long , low hall , which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof .
16 There were doors all round the hall , but they were all locked ; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other , trying every door , she walked sadly down the middle , wondering how she was ever to get out again .
17 Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table , all made of solid glass ; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key , and Alice 's first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall ; but , alas !
18 either the locks were too large , or the key was too small , but at any rate it would not open any of them .
19 However , on the second time round , she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before , and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high : she tried the little golden key in the lock , and to her great delight it fitted !
20 Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage , not much larger than a rat-hole : she knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw .
21 How she longed to get out of that dark XXXXX , and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains , but she could not even get her head through the doorway ; ` and even if my head would go through , ' thought poor Alice , ` it would be of very little use without my shoulders .	hall		bat|garden|hall|locks|matter|mouse|passage|side|table|thump

1 said the March Hare .
2 ` Exactly so , ' said Alice .
3 ` Then you should say what you mean , ' the March Hare went on . '
4 I do , ' Alice hastily replied ; ` at least -- at least I mean what I say -- that 's the same thing , you know . '
5 ` Not the same thing a bit ! '
6 said the Hatter .
7 ` You might just as well say that `` I see what I eat '' is the same thing as `` I eat what I see '' ! '
8 ` You might just as well say , ' added the March Hare , ` that `` I like what I get '' is the same thing as `` I get what I like '' ! '
9 ` You might just as well say , ' added the Dormouse , who seemed to be talking in his sleep , ` that `` I breathe when I sleep '' is the same thing as `` I sleep when I breathe '' ! '
10 ` It IS the same thing with you , ' said the Hatter , and here the conversation dropped , and the party sat silent for a minute , while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks , which was n't much .
11 The Hatter was the first to break the silence .
12 ` What day of the month is it ? '
13 he said , turning to Alice : he had taken his watch out of his pocket , and was looking at it uneasily , shaking it every now and then , and holding it to his ear .
14 Alice considered a little , and then said ` The fourth . '
15 ` Two days wrong ! '
16 sighed the Hatter . '
17 I told you butter would n't suit the works ! '
18 he added looking angrily at the March Hare .
19 ` It was the BEST butter , ' the March Hare meekly replied .
20 ` Yes , but some crumbs must have got in as well , ' the Hatter grumbled : ` you should n't have put it in with the bread-knife . '
21 The March Hare took the XXXXX and looked at it gloomily : then he dipped it into his cup of tea , and looked at it again : but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark , ` It was the BEST butter , you know . '	watch		March|bit|butter|conversation|day|ear|pocket|sleep|thing|watch

1 He threw them to the beasts , but soon the bag grew lighter and lighter , and the Prince began to feel a little frightened .
2 And now the last crumb was gone , and the hungry beasts thronged round him , greedy for fresh prey .
3 Then he seized the hare and threw it to them .
4 No sooner did the little creature feel itself on the ground than it lay back its ears and flew through the wood like an arrow from a bow , closely pursued by the wild beasts , and the Prince was left alone .
5 He looked at his ring , and when he saw that it sparkled as brightly as ever he went straight on through the forest .
6 He had n't gone very far when he saw a most extraordinary looking man coming towards him .
7 He was not more than three feet high , his legs were quite crooked , and all his body was covered with prickles like a hedgehog .
8 Two lions walked with him , fastened to his side by the two ends of his long beard .
9 He stopped the Prince and asked him in a harsh voice : ` Are you the man who has just fed my body-guard ? '
10 Iwanich was so startled that he could hardly reply , but the little man continued : ' I am most grateful to you for your kindness ; what can I give you as a reward ? '
11 ` All I ask , ' replied Iwanich , ` is , that I should be allowed to go through this wood in safety . '
12 ` Most certainly , ' answered the little man ; ` and for greater security I will give you one of my lions as a protector .
13 But when you leave this wood and come near a palace which does not belong to my domain , let the lion go , in order that he may not fall into the hands of an enemy and be killed . '
14 With these words he loosened the lion from his beard and bade the beast guard the youth carefully .
15 With this new protector Iwanich wandered on through the forest , and though he came upon a great many more wolves , hyenas , leopards , and other wild beasts , they always kept at a respectful distance when they saw what sort of an escort the Prince had with him .
16 Iwanich hurried through the wood as quickly as his legs would carry him , but , nevertheless , hour after hour went by and not a trace of a green field or a human habitation met his eyes .
17 At length , towards evening , the mass of trees grew more transparent , and through the interlaced branches a wide plain was visible .
18 At the exit of the wood the lion stood still , and the Prince took leave of him , having first thanked him warmly for his kind protection .
19 It had become quite dark , and Iwanich was forced to wait for daylight before continuing his journey .
20 He made himself a bed of grass and leaves , lit a fire of dry branches , and slept soundly till the next morning .
21 Then he got up and walked towards a beautiful white XXXXX which he saw gleaming in the distance .	palace		arrow|beard|beasts|ears|feet|ground|hare|legs|palace|security

1 said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest contempt .
2 ` I 've seen a good many little girls in my time , but never ONE with such a neck as that !
3 No , no !
4 You 're a serpent ; and there 's no use denying it .
5 I suppose you 'll be telling me next that you never tasted an egg ! ' '
6 I HAVE tasted eggs , certainly , ' said Alice , who was a very truthful child ; ` but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do , you know . ' '
7 I do n't believe it , ' said the Pigeon ; ` but if they do , why then they 're a kind of serpent , that 's all I can say . '
8 This was such a new idea to Alice , that she was quite silent for a minute or two , which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding , ` You 're looking for eggs , I know THAT well enough ; and what does it matter to me whether you 're a little girl or a serpent ? '
9 ` It matters a good deal to ME , ' said Alice hastily ; ` but I 'm not looking for eggs , as it happens ; and if I was , I should n't want YOURS : I do n't like them raw . '
10 ` Well , be off , then ! '
11 said the Pigeon in a sulky tone , as it settled down again into its nest .
12 Alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could , for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches , and every now and then she had to stop and untwist it .
13 After a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands , and she set to work very carefully , nibbling first at one and then at the other , and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter , until she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height .
14 It was so long since she had been anything near the right size , that it felt quite strange at first ; but she got used to it in a few minutes , and began talking to herself , as usual .
15 ` Come , there 's half my plan done now !
16 How puzzling all these changes are !
17 I 'm never sure what I 'm going to be , from one minute to another !
18 However , I 've got back to my right size : the next thing is , to get into that beautiful garden -- how IS that to be done , I wonder ? '
19 As she said this , she came suddenly upon an open place , with a little house in it about four feet high .
20 ` Whoever lives there , ' thought Alice , ` it 'll never do to come upon them THIS size : why , I should frighten them out of their wits ! '
21 So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again , and did not venture to go near the XXXXX till she had brought herself down to nine inches high .	house		contempt|feet|girls|house|nest|opportunity|plan|trees|use|wits

1 Soon afterwards he saw something big coming towards him , darkening the sky .
2 It kept coming nearer and growing bigger , and what was this after all but the Eagle ?
3 When she arrived the old man scolded her , and asked what had kept her so long behind . '
4 I could n't help it , ' she said ; ' I had more than twenty times further to come than any bird that has come here to-day . '
5 ` Where have you come from , then ? '
6 said the old man .
7 ` From the Blue Mountains , ' said she .
8 ` Indeed ! '
9 said the old man ; and what are they doing there ? '
10 ` They are making ready this very day , ' said the Eagle , ` for the marriage of the daughter of the King of the Blue Mountains .
11 For three years now she has refused to marry anyone whatsoever , until she should give up all hope of the coming of the man who released her from the spell .
12 Now she can wait no longer , for three years is the time that she agreed with her father to remain without marrying . '
13 The Irishman knew that it was for himself she had been waiting so long , but he was unable to make any better of it , for he had no hope of reaching the Blue Mountains all his life .
14 The old man noticed how sad he grew , and asked the Eagle what she would take for carrying this man on her back to the Blue Mountains . '
15 I must have threescore cattle killed , ' said she , ` and cut up into quarters , and every time I look over my shoulder he must throw one of them into my mouth . '
16 As soon as the Irishman and the old man heard her demand they went out hunting , and before evening they had killed three-score cattle .
17 They made quarters of them , as the Eagle told them , and then the old man asked her to lie down , till they would get it all heaped up on her back .
18 First of all , though , they had to get a ladder of fourteen steps , to enable them to get on to the Eagle 's back , and there they piled up the meat as well as they could .
19 Then the old man told the Irishman to mount , and to remember to throw a quarter of beef to her every time she looked round .
20 He went up , and the old man gave the Eagle the word to be off , which she instantly obeyed ; and every time she turned her head the Irishman threw a quarter of beef into her mouth .
21 As they came near the borders of the kingdom of the Blue Mountains , however , the XXXXX was done , and , when the Eagle looked over her shoulder , what was the Irishman at but throwing the stone between her tail and her neck !	beef		back|beef|cattle|father|ladder|quarters|round|spell|times|word

1 After walking for some time he came to a forest , into which he went a little way and stopped .
2 Then he heard sweet music from a harp , and went in the direction of the sound until he came to a clearing , and there he saw three women , one of whom sat on a golden chair , and was beautifully and grandly dressed ; she held a harp in her hands , and was very sorrowful .
3 The second was also finely dressed , but younger in appearance , and also sat on a chair , but it was not so grand as the first one 's .
4 The third stood beside them , and was very pretty to look at ; she had a green cloak over her other clothes , and it was easy to see that she was maid to the other two .
5 After the King had looked at them for a little he went forward and saluted them .
6 The one that sat on the golden chair asked him who he was and where he was going ; and he told her all the story -- how he was a king , and had lost his queen , and was now on his way to Hetland the Good , to ask the Queen of that country in marriage .
7 She answered that fortune had contrived this wonderfully , for pirates had plundered Hetland and killed the King , and she had fled from the land in terror , and had come hither after great trouble , and she was the very person he was looking for , and the others were her daughter and maid .
8 The King immediately asked her hand ; she gladly received his proposal and accepted him at once .
9 Thereafter they all set out , and made their way to the ship ; and after that nothing is told of their voyage until the King reached his own country .
10 There he made a great feast , and celebrated his marriage with this woman ; and after that things are quiet for a time .
11 Hermod and Hadvor took but little notice of the Queen and her daughter , but , on the other hand , Hadvor and the Queen 's maid , whose name was Olof , were very friendly , and Olof came often to visit Hadvor in her castle .
12 Before long the King went out to war , and no sooner was he away than the Queen came to talk with Hermod , and said that she wanted him to marry her daughter .
13 Hermod told her straight and plain that he would not do so , at which the Queen grew terribly angry , and said that in that case neither should he have Hadvor , for she would now lay this spell on him , that he should go to a desert island and there be a lion by day and a man by night .
14 He should also think always of Hadvor , which would cause him all the more sorrow , and from this spell he should never be freed until Hadvor burned the lion 's skin , and that would not happen very soon .
15 As soon as the Queen had finished her speech Hermod replied that he also laid a spell on her , and that was , that as soon as he was freed from her enchantments she should become a rat and her daughter a mouse , and fight with each other in the hall until he killed them with his sword .
16 After this Hermod disappeared , and no one knew what had become of him ; the Queen caused search to be made for him , but he could nowhere be found .
17 One time , when Olof was in the castle beside Hadvor , she asked the Princess if she knew where Hermod had gone to .
18 At this Hadvor became very sad , and said that she did not . '
19 I shall tell you then , ' said Olof , ` for I know all about it .
20 Hermod has disappeared through the wicked devices of the Queen , for she is a witch , and so is her daughter , though they have put on these beautiful forms .
21 Because Hermod would not fall in with the Queen 's plans , and marry her daughter , she has laid a spell on him , to go on an island and be a lion by day and a man by night , and never be freed from this until you burn the XXXXX 's skin .	lion		chair|country|king|lion|music|proposal|sword|time|way|woman

1 So , although she could not come on the date requested , she would , if acceptable , come the following Sunday .
2 This suited the Putney Auxiliary very well .
3 On the Sunday referred to there was to be no evening service in the church owing to Mr. Sinclair 's absence .
4 They therefore appointed the missionary meeting for that night , and made arrangements to hold it in the church itself , as the classroom was too small for the expected audience .
5 Then the thunderbolt descended on the W.F.M.A. of Putney from a clear sky .
6 The elders of the church rose up to a man and declared that no woman should occupy the pulpit of the Putney church .
7 It was in direct contravention to the teachings of St. Paul .
8 To make matters worse , Mr. Sinclair declared himself on the elders ' side .
9 He said that he could not conscientiously give his consent to a woman occupying his pulpit , even when that woman was Mrs. Cotterell and her subject foreign missions .
10 The members of the Auxiliary were aghast .
11 They called a meeting extraordinary in the classroom and , discarding all forms and ceremonies in their wrath , talked their indignation out .
12 Out of doors the world basked in June sunshine and preened itself in blossom .
13 The birds sang and chirped in the lichened maples that cupped the little church in , and peace was over all the Putney valley .
14 Inside the classroom disgusted women buzzed like angry bees .
15 `` What on earth are we to do ? ''
16 sighed the secretary plaintively .
17 Mary Kilburn was always plaintive .
18 She sat on the steps of the platform , being too wrought up in her mind to sit in her chair at the desk , and her thin , faded little face was twisted with anxiety .
19 `` All the arrangements are made and Mrs. Cotterell is coming on the tenth .
20 How can we tell her that the men wo n't let her speak ? ''
21 `` There was never anything like this in Putney XXXXX before , '' groaned Mrs. Elder Knox .	church		Mrs.|audience|bees|church|desk|forms|man|matters|meeting|missions

1 He drew the scale from his pocket , and hurrying to the river he threw it in .
2 In a minute the grateful fish swam towards the bank on which Iwanich was standing , and said : ` What do you command , my friend and benefactor ? '
3 The Prince replied : ' I had to look after a mare and foal , and they have run away from me and have hidden themselves in the river ; if you wish to save my life drive them back to the land . '
4 ` Wait a moment , ' answered the fish , ` and I and my friends will soon drive them out of the water . '
5 With these words the creature disappeared into the depths of the stream .
6 Almost immediately a rushing hissing sound was heard in the waters , the waves dashed against the banks , the foam was tossed into the air , and the two horses leapt suddenly on to the dry land , trembling and shaking with fear .
7 Iwanich sprang at once on to the mare 's back , seized the foal by its bridle , and hastened home in the highest spirits .
8 When the witch saw the Prince bringing the horses home she could hardly conceal her wrath , and as soon as she had placed Iwanich 's supper before him she stole away again to the stables .
9 The Prince followed her , and heard her scolding the beasts harshly for not having hidden themselves better .
10 She bade them wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep and then to hide themselves in the clouds , and to remain there till she called .
11 If they did not do as she told them she would beat them till they bled .
12 The next morning , after Iwanich had led his horses to the fields , he fell once more into a magic sleep .
13 The horses at once ran away and hid themselves in the clouds , which hung down from the mountains in soft billowy masses .
14 When the Prince awoke and found that both the mare and the foal had disappeared , he bethought him at once of the eagle , and taking the feather out of his pocket he blew it into the air .
15 In a moment the bird swooped down beside him and asked : ` What do you wish me to do ? '
16 ` My mare and foal , ' replied the Prince , ` have run away from me , and have hidden themselves in the clouds ; if you wish to save my life , restore both animals to me . '
17 ` Wait a minute , ' answered the eagle ; ` with the help of my friends I will soon drive them back to you . '
18 With these words the bird flew up into the air and disappeared among the clouds .
19 Almost directly Iwanich saw his two horses being driven towards him by a host of eagles of all sizes .
20 He caught the mare and foal , and having thanked the eagle he drove them cheerfully home again .
21 The old witch was more disgusted than ever when she saw him appearing , and having set his supper before him she stole into the stables , and Iwanich heard her abusing the XXXXX for not having hidden themselves better in the clouds .	horses		animals|bird|clouds|feather|help|horses|land|scale|water|witch

1 My mother compelled me to do it ; it was against my will , for I love you dearly .
2 Your wishing-cloak is hanging in a cupboard , and as for the bird-heart I will make a drink and give it back to you . '
3 But he changed his mind , and said , ` Keep it ; it makes no difference , for I will take you to be my own dear true wife . '
4 And the wedding was celebrated , and they lived happy together till death .
5 THE LITTLE GREEN FROG -LRB- 8 -RRB- -LRB- 8 -RRB- Cabinet des Fees .
6 In a part of the world whose name I forget lived once upon a time two kings , called Peridor and Diamantino .
7 They were cousins as well as neighbours , and both were under the protection of the fairies ; though it is only fair to say that the fairies did not love them half so well as their wives did .
8 Now it often happens that as princes can generally manage to get their own way it is harder for them to be good than it is for common people .
9 So it was with Peridor and Diamantino ; but of the two , the fairies declared that Diamantino was much the worst ; indeed , he behaved so badly to his wife Aglantino , that the fairies would not allow him to live any longer ; and he died , leaving behind him a little daughter .
10 As she was an only child , of course this little girl was the heiress of the kingdom , but , being still only a baby , her mother , the widow of Diamantino , was proclaimed regent .
11 The Queen-dowager was wise and good , and tried her best to make her people happy .
12 The only thing she had to vex her was the absence of her daughter ; for the fairies , for reasons of their own , determined to bring up the little Princess Serpentine among themselves .
13 As to the other King , he was really fond of his wife , Queen Constance , but he often grieved her by his thoughtless ways , and in order to punish him for his carelessness , the fairies caused her to die quite suddenly .
14 When she was gone the King felt how much he had loved her , and his grief was so great -LRB- though he never neglected his duties -RRB- that his subjects called him Peridor the Sorrowful .
15 It seems hardly possible that any man should live like Peridor for fifteen years plunged in such depth of grief , and most likely he would have died too if it had not been for the fairies .
16 The one comfort the poor King had was his son , Prince Saphir , who was only three years old at the time of his mother 's death , and great care was given to his education .
17 By the time he was fifteen Saphir had learnt everything that a prince should know , and he was , besides , charming and agreeable .
18 It was about this time that the fairies suddenly took fright lest his love for his father should interfere with the plans they had made for the young prince .
19 So , to prevent this , they placed in a pretty little room of which Saphir was very fond a little mirror in a black frame , such as were often brought from Venice .
20 The Prince did not notice for some days that there was anything new in the room , but at last he perceived it , and went up to look at it more closely .
21 What was his surprise to see reflected in the mirror , not his own face , but that of a young XXXXX as lovely as the morning !	girl		absence|fright|girl|grief|order|people|protection|reasons|room|ways

1 ` Come on , then ! '
2 roared the Queen , and Alice joined the procession , wondering very much what would happen next .
3 ` It 's -- it 's a very fine day ! '
4 said a timid voice at her side .
5 She was walking by the White Rabbit , who was peeping anxiously into her face .
6 ` Very , ' said Alice : ' -- where 's the Duchess ? '
7 ` Hush !
8 Hush ! '
9 said the Rabbit in a low , hurried tone .
10 He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke , and then raised himself upon tiptoe , put his mouth close to her ear , and whispered ` She 's under sentence of execution . '
11 ` What for ? '
12 said Alice .
13 ` Did you say `` What a pity ! ''
14 ? '
15 the Rabbit asked .
16 ` No , I did n't , ' said Alice : ' I do n't think it 's at all a pity .
17 I said `` What for ? '' '
18 ` She boxed the Queen 's ears -- ' the Rabbit began .
19 Alice gave a little scream of laughter .
20 ` Oh , hush ! '
21 the Rabbit whispered in a frightened XXXXX .	tone		Rabbit|boxed|ears|pity|procession|said|shoulder|side|tone|voice

1 The whole court went out to see the wonder , and their astonishment was great at the sight which met their eyes .
2 A splendid palace reared itself on the hill just outside the walls of the city , made of the most exquisite flowers that ever grew in mortal garden .
3 The roof was all of crimson roses , the windows of lilies , the walls of white carnations , the floors of glowing auriculas and violets , the doors of gorgeous tulips and narcissi with sunflowers for knockers , and all round hyacinths and other sweet-smelling flowers bloomed in masses , so that the air was perfumed far and near and enchanted all who were present .
4 This splendid palace had been built by the grateful queen bee , who had summoned all the other bees in the kingdom to help her .
5 The King 's amazement knew no bounds , and the Princess 's eyes beamed with delight as she turned them from the wonderful building on the delighted Ferko .
6 But the two brothers had grown quite green with envy , and only declared the more that Ferko was nothing but a wicked magician .
7 The King , although he had been surprised and astonished at the way his commands had been carried out , was very vexed that the stranger should escape with his life , and turning to the two brothers he said , ` He has certainly accomplished the first task , with the aid no doubt of his diabolical magic ; but what shall we give him to do now ?
8 Let us make it as difficult as possible , and if he fails he shall die . '
9 Then the eldest brother replied , ` The corn has all been cut , but it has not yet been put into barns ; let the knave collect all the grain in the kingdom into one big heap before to-morrow night , and if as much as a stalk of corn is left let him be put to death .
10 The Princess grew white with terror when she heard these words ; but Ferko felt much more cheerful than he had done the first time , and wandered out into the meadows again , wondering how he was to get out of the difficulty .
11 But he could think of no way of escape .
12 The sun sank to rest and night came on , when a little mouse started out of the grass at Ferko 's feet , and said to him , ` I 'm delighted to see you , my kind benefactor ; but why are you looking so sad ?
13 Can I be of any help to you , and thus repay your great kindness to me ? '
14 Then Ferko recognised the mouse whose front paws he had healed , and replied , ` Alas I how can you help me in a matter that is beyond any human power !
15 Before to-morrow night all the grain in the kingdom has to be gathered into one big heap , and if as much as a stalk of corn is wanting I must pay for it with my life . '
16 ` Is that all ? '
17 answered the mouse ; ` that need n't distress you much .
18 Just trust in me , and before the sun sets again you shall hear that your task is done . '
19 And with these words the little creature scampered away into the fields .
20 Ferko , who never doubted that the mouse would be as good as its word , lay down comforted on the soft grass and slept soundly till next morning .
21 The day passed slowly , and with the evening came the little mouse and said , ` Now there is not a single stalk of XXXXX left in any field ; they are all collected in one big heap on the hill out there . '	corn		brothers|commands|corn|creature|difficulty|garden|grain|grass|heap|terror

1 He was going uphill , but though Little Toomai watched the stars in the rifts of the trees , he could not tell in what direction .
2 Then Kala Nag reached the crest of the ascent and stopped for a minute , and Little Toomai could see the tops of the trees lying all speckled and furry under the moonlight for miles and miles , and the blue-white mist over the river in the hollow .
3 Toomai leaned forward and looked , and he felt that the forest was awake below him -- awake and alive and crowded .
4 A big brown fruit-eating bat brushed past his ear ; a porcupine 's quills rattled in the thicket ; and in the darkness between the tree stems he heard a hog-bear digging hard in the moist warm earth , and snuffing as it digged .
5 Then the branches closed over his head again , and Kala Nag began to go down into the valley -- not quietly this time , but as a runaway gun goes down a steep bank -- in one rush .
6 The huge limbs moved as steadily as pistons , eight feet to each stride , and the wrinkled skin of the elbow points rustled .
7 The undergrowth on either side of him ripped with a noise like torn canvas , and the saplings that he heaved away right and left with his shoulders sprang back again and banged him on the flank , and great trails of creepers , all matted together , hung from his tusks as he threw his head from side to side and plowed out his pathway .
8 Then Little Toomai laid himself down close to the great neck lest a swinging bough should sweep him to the ground , and he wished that he were back in the lines again .
9 The grass began to get squashy , and Kala Nag 's feet sucked and squelched as he put them down , and the night mist at the bottom of the valley chilled Little Toomai .
10 There was a splash and a trample , and the rush of running water , and Kala Nag strode through the bed of a river , feeling his way at each step .
11 Above the noise of the water , as it swirled round the elephant 's legs , Little Toomai could hear more splashing and some trumpeting both upstream and down -- great grunts and angry snortings , and all the mist about him seemed to be full of rolling , wavy shadows .
12 `` Ai ! ''
13 he said , half aloud , his teeth chattering .
14 `` The elephant-folk are out tonight .
15 It is the dance , then ! ''
16 Kala Nag swashed out of the water , blew his trunk clear , and began another climb .
17 But this time he was not alone , and he had not to make his path .
18 That was made already , six feet wide , in front of him , where the bent jungle-grass was trying to recover itself and stand up .
19 Many elephants must have gone that way only a few minutes before .
20 Little Toomai looked back , and behind him a great wild tusker with his little pig 's eyes glowing like hot coals was just lifting himself out of the misty river .
21 Then the XXXXX closed up again , and they went on and up , with trumpetings and crashings , and the sound of breaking branches on every side of them .	trees		Ai|coals|crest|gun|path|pistons|shadows|splash|stride|trees

1 `` Only one way , '' said the two together .
2 -LRB- They must have been twins . -RRB-
3 `` This is that way .
4 To put all twenty yoke of us to the big gun as soon as Two Tails trumpets . ''
5 -LRB- `` Two Tails '' is camp slang for the elephant . -RRB-
6 `` What does Two Tails trumpet for ? ''
7 said the young mule .
8 `` To show that he is not going any nearer to the smoke on the other side .
9 Two Tails is a great coward .
10 Then we tug the big gun all together -- Heya -- Hullah !
11 Heeyah !
12 Hullah !
13 We do not climb like cats nor run like calves .
14 We go across the level plain , twenty yoke of us , till we are unyoked again , and we graze while the big guns talk across the plain to some town with mud walls , and pieces of the wall fall out , and the dust goes up as though many cattle were coming home . ''
15 `` Oh !
16 And you choose that time for grazing ? ''
17 said the young mule .
18 `` That time or any other .
19 Eating is always good .
20 We eat till we are yoked up again and tug the gun back to where Two Tails is waiting for it .
21 Sometimes there are big XXXXX in the city that speak back , and some of us are killed , and then there is all the more grazing for those that are left .	guns		Eating|calves|cats|coward|guns|side|tug|twins|way|yoke

1 `` I am sore , hungry , and not a little bruised .
2 But , oh , they have handled ye grievously , my Brothers !
3 Ye bleed . ''
4 `` Others also , '' said Bagheera , licking his lips and looking at the monkey-dead on the terrace and round the tank .
5 `` It is nothing , it is nothing , if thou art safe , oh , my pride of all little frogs ! ''
6 whimpered Baloo .
7 `` Of that we shall judge later , '' said Bagheera , in a dry voice that Mowgli did not at all like .
8 `` But here is Kaa to whom we owe the battle and thou owest thy life .
9 Thank him according to our customs , Mowgli . ''
10 Mowgli turned and saw the great Python 's head swaying a foot above his own .
11 `` So this is the manling , '' said Kaa .
12 `` Very soft is his skin , and he is not unlike the Bandar-log .
13 Have a care , manling , that I do not mistake thee for a monkey some twilight when I have newly changed my coat . ''
14 `` We be one blood , thou and I , '' Mowgli answered .
15 `` I take my life from thee tonight .
16 My kill shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry , O Kaa . ''
17 `` All thanks , Little Brother , '' said Kaa , though his eyes twinkled .
18 `` And what may so bold a hunter kill ?
19 I ask that I may follow when next he goes abroad . ''
20 `` I kill nothing , -- I am too little , -- but I drive goats toward such as can use them .
21 When thou XXXXX empty come to me and see if I speak the truth .	art		Brothers|art|battle|customs|life|lips|nothing|skin|tank|thanks

1 Prizes ! '
2 Alice had no idea what to do , and in despair she put her hand in her pocket , and pulled out a box of comfits , -LRB- luckily the salt water had not got into it -RRB- , and handed them round as prizes .
3 There was exactly one a-piece all round .
4 ` But she must have a prize herself , you know , ' said the Mouse .
5 ` Of course , ' the Dodo replied very gravely .
6 ` What else have you got in your pocket ? '
7 he went on , turning to Alice .
8 ` Only a thimble , ' said Alice sadly .
9 ` Hand it over here , ' said the Dodo .
10 Then they all crowded round her once more , while the Dodo solemnly presented the thimble , saying ` We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble ' ; and , when it had finished this short speech , they all cheered .
11 Alice thought the whole thing very absurd , but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh ; and , as she could not think of anything to say , she simply bowed , and took the thimble , looking as solemn as she could .
12 The next thing was to eat the comfits : this caused some noise and confusion , as the large birds complained that they could not taste theirs , and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back .
13 However , it was over at last , and they sat down again in a ring , and begged the Mouse to tell them something more .
14 ` You promised to tell me your history , you know , ' said Alice , ` and why it is you hate -- C and D , ' she added in a whisper , half afraid that it would be offended again .
15 ` Mine is a long and a sad tale ! '
16 said the Mouse , turning to Alice , and sighing .
17 ` It IS a long tail , certainly , ' said Alice , looking down with wonder at the Mouse 's tail ; ` but why do you call it sad ? '
18 And she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking , so that her idea of the tale was something like this : -- ` Fury said to a mouse , That he met in the house , `` Let us both go to law : I will prosecute YOU .
19 -- Come , I 'll take no denial ; We must have a trial : For really this morning I 've nothing to do . ''
20 Said the mouse to the cur , `` Such a trial , dear Sir , With no jury or judge , would be wasting our breath . ''
21 `` I 'll be judge , I 'll be jury , '' Said cunning old XXXXX : `` I 'll try the whole cause , and condemn you to death . '' '	Fury		C|Fury|Mine|box|jury|mouse|ones|pocket|speech|tail

1 The youth looked at her more closely , and saw that her skin was smooth and fair , her blue eyes bright and sparkling , and her hair as golden as the sun .
2 He fell in love with her on the spot , and kneeling at her feet , he implored her to become his wife .
3 The lovely girl accepted his proposal gladly ; but at the same time she warned him that she could never come up to the world above till her mother , the old witch , was dead .
4 And she went on to tell him that the only way in which the old creature could be killed was with the sword that hung up in the castle ; but the sword was so heavy that no one could lift it .
5 Then the youth went into a room in the castle where everything was made of silver , and here he found another beautiful girl , the sister of his bride .
6 She was combing her silver hair , and every hair that fell on the ground rang out like pure metal .
7 The second girl handed him the sword , but though he tried with all his strength he could not lift it .
8 At last a third sister came to him and gave him a drop of something to drink , which she said would give him the needful strength .
9 He drank one drop , but still he could not lift the sword ; then he drank a second , and the sword began to move ; but only after he had drunk a third drop was he able to swing the sword over his head .
10 Then he hid himself in the castle and awaited the old witch 's arrival .
11 At last as it was beginning to grow dark she appeared .
12 She swooped down upon a big apple-tree , and after shaking some golden apples from it , she pounced down upon the earth .
13 As soon as her feet touched the ground she became transformed from a hawk into a woman .
14 This was the moment the youth was waiting for , and he swung his mighty sword in the air with all his strength and the witch 's head fell off , and her blood spurted up on the walls .
15 Without fear of any further danger , he packed up all the treasures of the castle into great chests , and gave his brothers a signal to pull them up out of the abyss .
16 First the treasures were attached to the rope and then the three lovely girls .
17 And now everything was up above and only he himself remained below .
18 But as he was a little suspicious of his brothers , he fastened a heavy stone on to the rope and let them pull it up .
19 At first they heaved with a will , but when the stone was half way up they let it drop suddenly , and it fell to the bottom broken into a hundred pieces .
20 ` So that 's what would have happened to my bones had I trusted myself to them , ' said the youth sadly ; and he began to cry bitterly , not because of the treasures , but because of the lovely girl with her swanlike neck and golden hair .
21 For a long XXXXX he wandered sadly all through the beautiful underworld , and one day he met a magician who asked him the cause of his tears .	time		brothers|castle|love|pieces|proposal|room|spot|time|treasures|way

1 If ye find that the Bullock can toss you , or the heavy-browed Sambhur can gore ; Ye need not stop work to inform us : we knew it ten seasons before .
2 Oppress not the cubs of the stranger , but hail them as Sister and Brother , For though they are little and fubsy , it may be the Bear is their mother .
3 `` There is none like to me ! ''
4 says the Cub in the pride of his earliest kill ; But the jungle is large and the Cub he is small .
5 Let him think and be still .
6 Maxims of Baloo All that is told here happened some time before Mowgli was turned out of the Seeonee Wolf Pack , or revenged himself on Shere Khan the tiger .
7 It was in the days when Baloo was teaching him the Law of the Jungle .
8 The big , serious , old brown bear was delighted to have so quick a pupil , for the young wolves will only learn as much of the Law of the Jungle as applies to their own pack and tribe , and run away as soon as they can repeat the Hunting Verse -- `` Feet that make no noise ; eyes that can see in the dark ; ears that can hear the winds in their lairs , and sharp white teeth , all these things are the marks of our brothers except Tabaqui the Jackal and the Hyaena whom we hate . ''
9 But Mowgli , as a man-cub , had to learn a great deal more than this .
10 Sometimes Bagheera the Black Panther would come lounging through the jungle to see how his pet was getting on , and would purr with his head against a tree while Mowgli recited the day 's lesson to Baloo .
11 The boy could climb almost as well as he could swim , and swim almost as well as he could run .
12 So Baloo , the Teacher of the Law , taught him the Wood and Water Laws : how to tell a rotten branch from a sound one ; how to speak politely to the wild bees when he came upon a hive of them fifty feet above ground ; what to say to Mang the Bat when he disturbed him in the branches at midday ; and how to warn the water-snakes in the pools before he splashed down among them .
13 None of the Jungle People like being disturbed , and all are very ready to fly at an intruder .
14 Then , too , Mowgli was taught the Strangers ' Hunting Call , which must be repeated aloud till it is answered , whenever one of the Jungle-People hunts outside his own grounds .
15 It means , translated , `` Give me leave to hunt here because I am hungry . ''
16 And the answer is , `` Hunt then for food , but not for pleasure . ''
17 All this will show you how much Mowgli had to learn by heart , and he grew very tired of saying the same thing over a hundred times .
18 But , as Baloo said to Bagheera , one day when Mowgli had been cuffed and run off in a temper , `` A man 's cub is a man 's cub , and he must learn all the Law of the Jungle . ''
19 `` But think how small he is , '' said the Black Panther , who would have spoiled Mowgli if he had had his own way .
20 `` How can his little head carry all thy long talk ? ''
21 `` Is there anything in the XXXXX too little to be killed ?	jungle		bear|boy|food|jungle|man|tiger|time|tribe|wolves|work

1 If you want help , then give us some bread . '
2 And the girl gave them the bread that her grandmother had given her .
3 Then the mice told her that the witch had a cat , and the cat was very fond of ham ; if she would give the cat her ham , it would show her the way out of the wood , and in the meantime they would spin the yarn for her .
4 So the girl set out to look for the cat , and , as she was hunting about , she met her brother , in great trouble because he could not carry water from the well in a sieve , as it came pouring out as fast as he put it in .
5 And as she was trying to comfort him they heard a rustling of wings , and a flight of wrens alighted on the ground beside them .
6 And the wrens said : ` Give us some crumbs , then you need not grieve .
7 For you 'll find that water will stay in the sieve . '
8 Then the twins crumbled their bread on the ground , and the wrens pecked it , and chirruped and chirped .
9 And when they had eaten the last crumb they told the boy to fill up the holes of the sieve with clay , and then to draw water from the well .
10 So he did what they said , and carried the sieve full of water into the hut without spilling a drop .
11 When they entered the hut the cat was curled up on the floor .
12 So they stroked her , and fed her with ham , and said to her : ` Pussy , grey pussy , tell us how we are to get away from the witch ? '
13 Then the cat thanked them for the ham , and gave them a pocket-handkerchief and a comb , and told them that when the witch pursued them , as she certainly would , all they had to do was to throw the handkerchief on the ground and run as fast as they could .
14 As soon as the handkerchief touched the ground a deep , broad river would spring up , which would hinder the witch 's progress .
15 If she managed to get across it , they must throw the comb behind them and run for their lives , for where the comb fell a dense forest would start up , which would delay the witch so long that they would be able to get safely away .
16 The cat had scarcely finished speaking when the witch returned to see if the children had fulfilled their tasks .
17 ` Well , you have done well enough for to-day , ' she grumbled ; ` but to-morrow you 'll have something more difficult to do , and if you do n't do it well , you pampered brats , straight into the oven you go . '
18 Half-dead with fright , and trembling in every limb , the poor children lay down to sleep on a heap of straw in the corner of the hut ; but they dared not close their eyes , and scarcely ventured to breathe .
19 In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before night , and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips .
20 Then the witch left them to their tasks , and went out into the wood .
21 As soon as she had gone out of sight the children took the comb and the XXXXX , and , taking one another by the hand , they started and ran , and ran , and ran .	handkerchief		boy|comb|fright|handkerchief|lives|meantime|progress|sieve|something|twins

1 After searching as usual for nearly a whole day Prince Saphir began to feel overcome with thirst .
2 He was too tired to go any farther , when happily he discovered a little way off a bubbling fountain of the clearest water .
3 Being an experienced traveller , he drew from his pocket a little cup -LRB- without which no one should ever take a journey -RRB- , and was just about to dip it in the water , when a lovely little green frog , much prettier than frogs generally are , jumped into the cup .
4 Far from admiring its beauty , Saphir shook it impatiently off ; but it was no good , for quick as lightning the frog jumped back again .
5 Saphir , who was raging with thirst , was just about to shake it off anew , when the little creature fixed upon him the most beautiful eyes in the world , and said , ' I am a friend of the bird you are seeking , and when you have quenched your thirst listen to me . '
6 So the Prince drank his fill , and then , by the command of the Little Green Frog , he lay down on the grass to rest himself .
7 ` Now , ' she began , ` be sure you do exactly in every respect what I tell you .
8 First you must call together your attendants , and order them to remain in a little hamlet close by until you want them .
9 Then go , quite alone , down a road that you will find on your right hand , looking southwards .
10 This road is planted all the way with cedars of Lebanon ; and after going down it a long way you will come at last to a magnificent castle .
11 And now , ' she went on , ` attend carefully to what I am going to say .
12 Take this tiny grain of sand , and put it into the ground as close as you can to the gate of the castle .
13 It has the virtue both of opening the gate and also of sending to sleep all the inhabitants .
14 Then go at once to the stable , and pay no heed to anything except what I tell you .
15 Choose the handsomest of all the horses , leap quickly on its back , and come to me as fast as you can .
16 Farewell , Prince ; I wish you good luck , ' and with these words the Little Frog plunged into the water and disappeared .
17 The Prince , who felt more hopeful than he had done since he left home , did precisely as he had been ordered .
18 He left his attendants in the hamlet , found the road the frog had described to him , and followed it all alone , and at last he arrived at the gate of the castle , which was even more splendid than he had expected , for it was built of crystal , and all its ornaments were of massive gold .
19 However , he had no thoughts to spare for its beauty , and quickly buried his grain of sand in the earth .
20 In one instant the gates flew open , and all the dwellers inside fell sound asleep .
21 Saphir flew straight to the stable , and already had his XXXXX on the finest horse it contained , when his eye was caught by a suit of magnificent harness hanging up close by .	hand		close|command|eyes|friend|gold|hand|leap|luck|water|world

1 No sooner had Ferko entered the palace than all eyes were turned on the handsome youth , and the King 's daughter herself was lost in admiration , for she had never seen anyone so handsome in her life before .
2 His brothers noticed this , and envy and jealousy were added to their fear , so much so that they determined once more to destroy him .
3 They went to the King and told him that Ferko was a wicked magician , who had come to the palace with the intention of carrying off the Princess .
4 Then the King had Ferko brought before him , and said , ` You are accused of being a magician who wishes to rob me of my daughter , and I condemn you to death ; but if you can fulfil three tasks which I shall set you to do your life shall be spared , on condition you leave the country ; but if you can not perform what I demand you shall be hung on the nearest tree . '
5 And turning to the two wicked brothers he said , ` Suggest something for him to do ; no matter how difficult , he must succeed in it or die . '
6 They did not think long , but replied , ` Let him build your Majesty in one day a more beautiful palace than this , and if he fails in the attempt let him be hung . '
7 The King was pleased with this proposal , and commanded Ferko to set to work on the following day .
8 The two brothers were delighted , for they thought they had now got rid of Ferko for ever .
9 The poor youth himself was heart-broken , and cursed the hour he had crossed the boundary of the King 's domain .
10 As he was wandering disconsolately about the meadows round the palace , wondering how he could escape being put to death , a little bee flew past , and settling on his shoulder whispered in his ear , ` What is troubling you , my kind benefactor ?
11 Can I be of any help to you ?
12 I am the bee whose wing you healed , and would like to show my gratitude in some way . '
13 Ferko recognised the queen bee , and said , ` Alas !
14 how could you help me ?
15 for I have been set to do a task which no one in the whole world could do , let him be ever such a genius !
16 To-morrow I must build a palace more beautiful than the King 's , and it must be finished before evening . '
17 ` Is that all ? '
18 answered the bee , ` then you may comfort yourself ; for before the sun goes down to-morrow night a palace shall be built unlike any that King has dwelt in before .
19 Just stay here till I come again and tell you that it is finished . '
20 Having said this she flew merrily away , and Ferko , reassured by her words , lay down on the grass and slept peacefully till the next morning .
21 Early on the following XXXXX the whole town was on its feet , and everyone wondered how and where the stranger would build the wonderful palace .	day		attempt|boundary|day|domain|eyes|grass|gratitude|morning|sun|world

1 After due consideration she informed the Prince that the object of his search was not far distant , but that it was too difficult for him to attempt to enter the enchanted palace where she was , as the King his father had surrounded it with a thick cloud , and that the only expedient she could think of would be to gain possession of the Princess 's parrot .
2 This , she added , did not appear impossible , as it often flew about to some distance in the neighbourhood .
3 Having told the Prince all this , the Fairy went out in hopes of seeing the parrot , and soon returned with the bird in her hand .
4 She promptly shut it up in a cage , and , touching the Prince with her wand , transformed him into an exactly similar parrot ; after which , she instructed him how to reach the Princess .
5 The Prince reached the palace in safety , but was so dazzled at first by the Princess 's beauty , which far surpassed his expectations , that he was quite dumb for a time .
6 The Princess was surprised and anxious , and fearing the parrot , who was her greatest comfort , had fallen ill , she took him in her hand and caressed him .
7 This soon reassured the Prince , and encouraged him to play his part well , and he began to say a thousand agreeable things which charmed the Princess .
8 Presently the King appeared , and the parrot noticed with joy how much he was disliked .
9 As soon as the King left , the Princess retired to her dressing-room , the parrot flew after her and overheard her lamentations at the continued persecutions of the King , who had pressed her to consent to their marriage .
10 The parrot said so many clever and tender things to comfort her that she began to doubt whether this could indeed be her own parrot .
11 When he saw her well-disposed towards him , he exclaimed : ` Madam , I have a most important secret to confide to you , and I beg you not to be alarmed by what I am about to say .
12 I am here on behalf of the Queen your mother , with the object of delivering your Highness ; to prove which , behold this portrait which she gave me herself . '
13 So saying he drew forth the miniature from under his wing .
14 The Princess 's surprise was great , but after what she had seen and heard it was impossible not to indulge in hope , for she had recognised the likeness of herself which her mother always wore .
15 The parrot , finding she was not much alarmed , told her who he was , all that her mother had promised him and the help he had already received from a Fairy who had assured him that she would give him means to transport the Princess to her mother 's arms .
16 When he found her listening attentively to him , he implored the Princess to allow him to resume his natural shape .
17 She did not speak , so he drew a feather from his wing , and she beheld before her a Prince of such surpassing beauty that it was impossible not to hope that she might owe her liberty to so charming a person .
18 Meantime the Fairy had prepared a chariot , to which she harnessed two powerful eagles ; then placing the cage , with the parrot in it , she charged the bird to conduct it to the window of the Princess 's dressing-room .
19 This was done in a few minutes , and the Princess , stepping into the chariot with the Prince , was delighted to find her parrot again .
20 As they rose through the air the Princess remarked a figure mounted on an eagle 's back flying in front of the chariot .
21 She was rather alarmed , but the Prince reassured her , telling her it was the good XXXXX to whom she owed so much , and who was now conducting her in safety to her mother .	Fairy		Fairy|bird|front|hand|help|liberty|marriage|mother|things|window

1 Ugh !
2 there sat the dog with eyes as big as saucers glaring at him .
3 ` You are a fine fellow ! '
4 said the Soldier , and put him on the Witch 's apron , took as much copper as his pockets could hold ; then he shut the chest , put the dog on it again , and went into the second room .
5 Sure enough there sat the dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels .
6 ` You had better not look at me so hard ! '
7 said the Soldier .
8 ` Your eyes will come out of their sockets ! '
9 And then he set the dog on the apron .
10 When he saw all the silver in the chest , he threw away the copper he had taken , and filled his pockets and knapsack with nothing but silver .
11 Then he went into the third room .
12 Horrors !
13 the dog there had two eyes , each as large as the Round Tower at Copenhagen , spinning round in his head like wheels .
14 ` Good evening ! '
15 said the Soldier and saluted , for he had never seen a dog like this before .
16 But when he had examined him more closely , he thought to himself : ` Now then , I 've had enough of this ! '
17 and put him down on the floor , and opened the chest .
18 Heavens !
19 what a heap of gold there was !
20 With all that he could buy up the whole town , and all the sugar pigs , all the tin soldiers , whips and rocking-horses in the whole world .
21 Now he threw away all the silver with which he had filled his XXXXX and knapsack , and filled them with gold instead -- yes , all his pockets , his knapsack , cap and boots even , so that he could hardly walk .	pockets		Heavens|Horrors|chest|copper|dog|evening|fellow|floor|pockets|room

1 He was too used to being sent to bed without any supper to care much for that , although he was hungry .
2 But his whole being was in a tumult of rebellion over the injustice that was meted out to him .
3 `` I wo n't stand it ! ''
4 he muttered over and over again .
5 `` I 'll run away .
6 I wo n't stay here . ''
7 To talk of running away was one thing .
8 To do it without a cent in your pocket or a place to run to was another .
9 But Chester had a great deal of determination in his make-up when it was fairly roused , and his hard upbringing had made him older and shrewder than his years .
10 He lay awake late that night , thinking out ways and means , but could arrive at no satisfactory conclusion .
11 The next day Mrs. Elwell said , `` Ches , Abner Stearns wants you to go up there for a fortnight while Tom Bixby is away , and drive the milk wagon of mornings and do the chores for Mrs. Stearns .
12 You might as well put in the time ` fore harvest that way as any other .
13 So hustle off -- and mind you behave yourself . ''
14 Chester heard the news gladly .
15 He had not yet devised any feasible plan for running away , and he always liked to work at the Stearns ' place .
16 To be sure , Mrs. Elwell received all the money he earned , but Mrs. Stearns was kind to him , and though he had to work hard and constantly , he was well fed and well treated by all .
17 The following fortnight was a comparatively happy one for the lad .
18 But he did not forget his purpose of shaking the dust of Upton from his feet as soon as possible , and he cudgelled his brains trying to find a way .
19 On the evening when he left the Stearns ' homestead , Mr. Stearns paid him for his fortnight 's work , much to the boy 's surprise , for Mrs. Elwell had always insisted that all such money should be paid directly to her .
20 Chester found himself the possessor of four dollars -- an amount of riches that almost took away his breath .
21 He had never in his whole life owned more than ten cents at a XXXXX .	time		bed|boy|feet|lad|plan|possessor|rebellion|surprise|thing|time

1 ` It is not worse than Breadthief , as your godchild is called . '
2 Not long after this another great longing came over the Cat .
3 She said to the Mouse , ` You must again be kind enough to look after the house alone , for I have been asked a second time to stand godmother , and as this child has a white ring round its neck , I can not refuse . '
4 The kind Mouse agreed , but the Cat slunk under the town wall to the church , and ate up half of the pot of fat .
5 ` Nothing tastes better , ' said she , ` than what one eats by oneself , ' and she was very much pleased with her day 's work .
6 When she came home the Mouse asked , ` What was this child called ? '
7 ` Half Gone , ' answered the Cat .
8 ` Halfgone !
9 what a name !
10 I have never heard it in my life .
11 I do n't believe it is in the calendar . '
12 Soon the Cat 's mouth began to water once more after her licking business .
13 ` All good things in threes , ' she said to the Mouse ; ' I have again to stand godmother .
14 The child is quite black , and has very white paws , but not a single white hair on its body .
15 This only happens once in two years , so you will let me go out ? '
16 ` Topoff !
17 Halfgone ! '
18 repeated the Mouse , ` they are such curious names ; they make me very thoughtful . '
19 ` Oh , you sit at home in your dark grey coat and your long tail , ' said the Cat , ` and you get fanciful .
20 That comes of not going out in the day . '
21 The Mouse had a good cleaning out while the Cat was gone , and made the XXXXX tidy ; but the greedy Cat ate the fat every bit up .	house		Mouse|body|child|day|hair|home|house|life|name|paws

1 Mr. Smiles coughed in an embarrassed fashion .
2 Miss Cordelia looked at him and was amazed to see that not a smile was on or about his face .
3 He looked absurdly serious .
4 `` I want to buy Nap , '' he said in a sepulchral tone , `` but that is not the only thing I want .
5 I want you too , ma'am .
6 I 'm tired of being a cross old bachelor .
7 I think I 'd like to be a cross old husband , for a change .
8 Do you think you could put up with me in that capacity , Miss Cordelia , my dear ? ''
9 Miss Cordelia gave a half gasp and then she had to laugh .
10 `` Oh , Mr. Smiles , I 'll agree to anything if you 'll only smile again .
11 It seems unnatural to see you look so solemn . ''
12 The smiles at once broke loose and revelled over her wooer 's face .
13 `` Then you will come ? ''
14 he said eagerly .
15 Half an hour later they had their plans made .
16 At New Year 's Miss Cordelia was to leave her school and sooty Pottstown and come to be mistress of Beechwood Farm .
17 `` And look here , '' said Mr. Smiles .
18 `` Every fine Saturday you shall have a big , roomy sleigh and Nap , and drive into town for some children and bring them out here for their weekly treat as usual .
19 The house is large enough to hold them , goodness knows , and if it is n't there are the barns for the overflow .
20 This is going to be our particular pet charity all our lives , ma'am -- I mean Cordelia , my dear . ''
21 `` Blessings on old XXXXX , '' said Miss Cordelia with a happy light in her eyes .	Nap		Miss|Mr.|Nap|bachelor|change|goodness|hour|house|husband|tone

1 As she said this , she came upon a neat little house , on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name ` W. RABBIT ' engraved upon it .
2 She went in without knocking , and hurried upstairs , in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann , and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and gloves .
3 ` How queer it seems , ' Alice said to herself , ` to be going messages for a rabbit !
4 I suppose Dinah 'll be sending me on messages next ! '
5 And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen : ' `` Miss Alice !
6 Come here directly , and get ready for your walk ! ''
7 `` Coming in a minute , nurse !
8 But I 've got to see that the mouse does n't get out . ''
9 Only I do n't think , ' Alice went on , ` that they 'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people about like that ! '
10 By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window , and on it -LRB- as she had hoped -RRB- a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves : she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves , and was just going to leave the room , when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-glass .
11 There was no label this time with the words ` DRINK ME , ' but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips . '
12 I know SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen , ' she said to herself , ` whenever I eat or drink anything ; so I 'll just see what this bottle does .
13 I do hope it 'll make me grow large again , for really I 'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing ! '
14 It did so indeed , and much sooner than she had expected : before she had drunk half the bottle , she found her head pressing against the ceiling , and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken .
15 She hastily put down the bottle , saying to herself ` That 's quite enough -- I hope I sha n't grow any more -- As it is , I ca n't get out at the door -- I do wish I had n't drunk quite so much ! '
16 Alas !
17 it was too late to wish that !
18 She went on growing , and growing , and very soon had to kneel down on the floor : in another minute there was not even room for this , and she tried the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door , and the other arm curled round her head .
19 Still she went on growing , and , as a last resource , she put one arm out of the window , and one foot up the chimney , and said to herself ` Now I can do no more , whatever happens .
20 What WILL become of me ? '
21 Luckily for Alice , the little magic bottle had now had its full XXXXX , and she grew no larger : still it was very uncomfortable , and , as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room again , no wonder she felt unhappy .	effect		arm|effect|fan|fear|label|lips|messages|nurse|room|words

1 There was nothing else to do , so Alice soon began talking again .
2 ` Dinah 'll miss me very much to-night , I should think ! '
3 -LRB- Dinah was the cat . -RRB- '
4 I hope they 'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time .
5 Dinah my dear !
6 I wish you were down here with me !
7 There are no mice in the air , I 'm afraid , but you might catch a bat , and that 's very like a mouse , you know .
8 But do cats eat bats , I wonder ? '
9 And here Alice began to get rather sleepy , and went on saying to herself , in a dreamy sort of way , ` Do cats eat bats ?
10 Do cats eat bats ? '
11 and sometimes , ` Do bats eat cats ? '
12 for , you see , as she could n't answer either question , it did n't much matter which way she put it .
13 She felt that she was dozing off , and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah , and saying to her very earnestly , ` Now , Dinah , tell me the truth : did you ever eat a bat ? '
14 when suddenly , thump !
15 thump !
16 down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves , and the fall was over .
17 Alice was not a bit hurt , and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment : she looked up , but it was all dark overhead ; before her was another long passage , and the White Rabbit was still in sight , hurrying down it .
18 There was not a moment to be lost : away went Alice like the wind , and was just in time to hear it say , as it turned a corner , ` Oh my ears and whiskers , how late it 's getting ! '
19 She was close behind it when she turned the corner , but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen : she found herself in a long , low hall , which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof .
20 There were doors all round the hall , but they were all locked ; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other , trying every door , she walked sadly down the middle , wondering how she was ever to get out again .
21 Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table , all made of solid glass ; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key , and Alice 's first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the XXXXX ; but , alas !	hall		cat|doors|ears|hall|mice|moment|question|thump|whiskers|wind

1 It was just what Aunt Eleanor intended , and she saw Frances drive off that afternoon with a great deal of satisfaction .
2 `` Give my love to Corona , '' she told her , `` and say for me that she is n't to go messing about among those shore people until she 's perfectly well .
3 The manse is the fourth house after you turn the third corner . ''
4 Frances kept count of the corners and the houses and found the manse .
5 Corona Sherwood herself came to the door .
6 Frances had been expecting an elderly personage with spectacles and grey crimps ; she was surprised to find that the minister 's sister was a girl of about her own age and possessed of a distinct worldly prettiness .
7 Corona was dark , with a different darkness from that of Frances , who had ivory outlines and blue-black hair , while Corona was dusky and piquant .
8 Her eyes brightened with delight when Frances told her errand .
9 `` How good of you and Miss Eleanor !
10 I am not strong enough to walk far yet -- or do anything useful , in fact , and Elliott so seldom has time to take me out . ''
11 `` Where shall we go ? ''
12 asked Frances when they started .
13 `` I do n't know much about this locality . ''
14 `` Can we drive to the Cove first ?
15 I want to see poor little Jacky Hart .
16 He has been so sick -- '' `` Aunt Eleanor positively forbade that , '' said Frances dubiously .
17 `` Will it be safe to disobey her ? ''
18 Corona laughed .
19 `` Miss Eleanor blames my poor shore people for making me sick at first , but it was really not that at all .
20 And I want to see Jacky Hart so much .
21 He has been ill for some XXXXX with some disease of the spine and he is worse lately .	time		Aunt|Cove|Miss|corners|count|darkness|house|houses|manse|time

1 The King hoped , however , that time might not only soften her anger , but accustom her to his sight .
2 He took the precaution of surrounding the palace with a dense cloud , and then hastened to his Court , where his prolonged absence was causing much anxiety .
3 The Prince and all the courtiers were delighted to see their beloved King again , but they had to submit themselves to more frequent absences than ever on his part .
4 He made business a pretext for shutting himself up in his study , but it was really in order to spend the time with the Princess , who remained inflexible .
5 Not being able to imagine what could be the cause of so much obstinacy the King began to fear , lest , in spite of all his precautions , she might have heard of the charms of the Prince his son , whose goodness , youth and beauty , made him adored at Court .
6 This idea made him horribly uneasy , and he resolved to remove the cause of his fears by sending the Prince on his travels escorted by a magnificent retinue .
7 The Prince , after visiting several Courts , arrived at the one where the lost Princess was still deeply mourned .
8 The King and Queen received him most graciously , and some festivities were revived to do him honour .
9 One day when the Prince was visiting the Queen in her own apartments he was much struck by a most beautiful portrait .
10 He eagerly inquired whose it was , and the Queen , with many tears , told him it was all that was left her of her beloved daughter , who had suddenly been carried off , she knew neither where nor how .
11 The Prince was deeply moved , and vowed that he would search the world for the Princess , and take no rest till he had found and restored her to her mother 's arms .
12 The Queen assured him of her eternal gratitude , and promised , should he succeed , to give him her daughter in marriage , together with all the estates she herself owned .
13 The Prince , far more attracted by the thoughts of possessing the Princess than her promised dower , set forth in his quest after taking leave of the King and Queen , the latter giving him a miniature of her daughter which she was in the habit of wearing .
14 His first act was to seek the Fairy under whose protection he had been placed , and he implored her to give him all the assistance of her art and counsel in this important matter .
15 After listening attentively to the whole adventure , the Fairy asked for time to consult her books .
16 After due consideration she informed the Prince that the object of his search was not far distant , but that it was too difficult for him to attempt to enter the enchanted palace where she was , as the King his father had surrounded it with a thick cloud , and that the only expedient she could think of would be to gain possession of the Princess 's parrot .
17 This , she added , did not appear impossible , as it often flew about to some distance in the neighbourhood .
18 Having told the Prince all this , the Fairy went out in hopes of seeing the parrot , and soon returned with the bird in her hand .
19 She promptly shut it up in a cage , and , touching the Prince with her wand , transformed him into an exactly similar parrot ; after which , she instructed him how to reach the Princess .
20 The Prince reached the palace in safety , but was so dazzled at first by the Princess 's beauty , which far surpassed his expectations , that he was quite dumb for a time .
21 The Princess was surprised and anxious , and fearing the XXXXX , who was her greatest comfort , had fallen ill , she took him in her hand and caressed him .	parrot		adventure|beauty|courtiers|distance|festivities|idea|matter|parrot|spite|travels

1 We 're busy here . ''
2 Kotick made his dolphin-jump in the air and shouted as loud as he could : `` Clam-eater !
3 Clam-eater ! ''
4 He knew that Sea Vitch never caught a fish in his life but always rooted for clams and seaweed ; though he pretended to be a very terrible person .
5 Naturally the Chickies and the Gooverooskies and the Epatkas -- the Burgomaster Gulls and the Kittiwakes and the Puffins , who are always looking for a chance to be rude , took up the cry , and -- so Limmershin told me -- for nearly five minutes you could not have heard a gun fired on Walrus Islet .
6 All the population was yelling and screaming `` Clam-eater !
7 Stareek -LSB- old man -RSB- ! ''
8 while Sea Vitch rolled from side to side grunting and coughing .
9 `` Now will you tell ? ''
10 said Kotick , all out of breath .
11 `` Go and ask Sea Cow , '' said Sea Vitch .
12 `` If he is living still , he 'll be able to tell you . ''
13 `` How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him ? ''
14 said Kotick , sheering off .
15 `` He 's the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch , '' screamed a Burgomaster gull , wheeling under Sea Vitch 's nose .
16 `` Uglier , and with worse manners !
17 Stareek ! ''
18 Kotick swam back to Novastoshnah , leaving the gulls to scream .
19 There he found that no one sympathized with him in his little attempt to discover a quiet place for the seals .
20 They told him that men had always driven the holluschickie -- it was part of the day 's work -- and that if he did not like to see ugly things he should not have gone to the killing grounds .
21 But none of the other XXXXX had seen the killing , and that made the difference between him and his friends .	seals		chance|fish|gull|man|part|person|sea|seals|thing|things

1 They went on chewing .
2 `` That comes of being afraid , '' said Billy .
3 `` You get laughed at by gun-bullocks .
4 I hope you like it , young un . ''
5 The young mule 's teeth snapped , and I heard him say something about not being afraid of any beefy old bullock in the world .
6 But the bullocks only clicked their horns together and went on chewing .
7 `` Now , do n't be angry after you 've been afraid .
8 That 's the worst kind of cowardice , '' said the troop-horse .
9 `` Anybody can be forgiven for being scared in the night , I think , if they see things they do n't understand .
10 We 've broken out of our pickets , again and again , four hundred and fifty of us , just because a new recruit got to telling tales of whip snakes at home in Australia till we were scared to death of the loose ends of our head-ropes . ''
11 `` That 's all very well in camp , '' said Billy .
12 `` I 'm not above stampeding myself , for the fun of the thing , when I have n't been out for a day or two .
13 But what do you do on active service ? ''
14 `` Oh , that 's quite another set of new shoes , '' said the troop horse .
15 `` Dick Cunliffe 's on my back then , and drives his knees into me , and all I have to do is to watch where I am putting my feet , and to keep my hind legs well under me , and be bridle-wise . ''
16 `` What 's bridle-wise ? ''
17 said the young mule .
18 `` By the Blue Gums of the Back Blocks , '' snorted the troop-horse , `` do you mean to say that you are n't taught to be bridle-wise in your business ?
19 How can you do anything , unless you can spin round at once when the rein is pressed on your neck ?
20 It means life or death to your man , and of course that 's life and death to you .
21 Get round with your hind legs under you the instant you feel the rein on your XXXXX .	neck		course|horns|knees|legs|man|neck|service|teeth|thing|world

1 By Red Flower Bagheera meant fire , only no creature in the jungle will call fire by its proper name .
2 Every beast lives in deadly fear of it , and invents a hundred ways of describing it .
3 `` The Red Flower ? ''
4 said Mowgli .
5 `` That grows outside their huts in the twilight .
6 I will get some . ''
7 `` There speaks the man 's cub , '' said Bagheera proudly .
8 `` Remember that it grows in little pots .
9 Get one swiftly , and keep it by thee for time of need . ''
10 `` Good ! ''
11 said Mowgli .
12 `` I go .
13 But art thou sure , O my Bagheera '' -- he slipped his arm around the splendid neck and looked deep into the big eyes -- `` art thou sure that all this is Shere Khan 's doing ? ''
14 `` By the Broken Lock that freed me , I am sure , Little Brother . ''
15 `` Then , by the Bull that bought me , I will pay Shere Khan full tale for this , and it may be a little over , '' said Mowgli , and he bounded away .
16 `` That is a man .
17 That is all a man , '' said Bagheera to himself , lying down again .
18 `` Oh , Shere Khan , never was a blacker hunting than that frog-hunt of thine ten years ago ! ''
19 Mowgli was far and far through the forest , running hard , and his heart was hot in him .
20 He came to the cave as the evening mist rose , and drew breath , and looked down the valley .
21 The cubs were out , but Mother Wolf , at the back of the XXXXX , knew by his breathing that something was troubling her frog .	cave		Bull|O|cave|eyes|forest|huts|neck|tale|ways|years

1 ` Ah !
2 Waska , my faithful little cat , is that you ? '
3 replied a weak voice . '
4 I am dying of hunger .
5 For three days I have not tasted food . '
6 ` Be of good heart , dear master , ' replied Waska ; ` from this day forth you will know nothing but happiness and prosperity .
7 If this were a moment to trouble you with riddles , I would make you guess what Schurka and I have brought you back .
8 Only think , we have got you your ring ! '
9 At these words Martin 's joy knew no bounds , and he stroked her fondly , and she rubbed up against him and purred happily , while below Schurka bounded in the air , and barked joyfully .
10 Then Martin took the ring , and threw it from one hand into the other , and instantly the twelve youths appeared and asked what they were to do .
11 ` Fetch me first something to eat and drink , as quickly as possible ; and after that bring musicians hither , and let us have music all day long . '
12 Now when the people in the town and palace heard music coming from the tower they were filled with amazement , and came to the King with the news that witchcraft must be going on in Martin 's Tower , for , instead of dying of starvation , he was seemingly making merry to the sound of music , and to the clatter of plates , and glass , and knives and forks ; and the music was so enchantingly sweet that all the passers-by stood still to listen to it .
13 On this the King sent at once a messenger to the Starvation Tower , and he was so astonished with what he saw that he remained rooted to the spot .
14 Then the King sent his chief counsellors , and they too were transfixed with wonder .
15 At last the King came himself , and he likewise was spellbound by the beauty of the music .
16 Then Martin summoned the twelve youths , spoke to them , saying , ` Build up my castle again , and join it to the King 's Palace with a crystal bridge ; do not forget the trees with the golden and silver apples , and with the birds of Paradise in the branches ; and put back the church with the five cupolas , and let the bells ring out , summoning the people from the four corners of the kingdom .
17 And one thing more : bring back my faithless wife , and lead her into the women 's chamber . '
18 And it was all done as he commanded , and , leaving the Starvation Tower , he took the King , his father-in-law , by the arm , and led him into the new palace , where the Princess sat in fear and trembling , awaiting her death .
19 And Martin spoke to the King , saying , ` King and royal father , I have suffered much at the hands of your daughter .
20 What punishment shall be dealt to her ? '
21 Then the mild King answered : ` Beloved Prince and son-in-law , if you love me , let your anger be turned to grace -- forgive my daughter , and restore her to your XXXXX and favour . '	heart		castle|cat|chamber|day|hand|heart|musicians|thing|voice|wife

1 I was so glad .
2 And the children 's hearts were set on it .
3 It seems too bad that we are not to get there .
4 I have to be back at work the morning after Christmas . ''
5 The khaki boy came up again and shared the candy .
6 He told amusing stories of campaigning in South Africa .
7 The minister came too , and listened , and even the sealskin lady turned her head over her shoulder .
8 By and by the children fell asleep , one on Aunt Cyrilla 's lap and one on Lucy Rose 's , and two on the seat .
9 Aunt Cyrilla and the pale girl helped the mother make up beds for them .
10 The minister gave his overcoat and the sealskin lady came forward with a shawl .
11 `` This will do for the baby , '' she said .
12 `` We must get up some Santa Claus for these youngsters , '' said the khaki boy .
13 `` Let 's hang their stockings on the wall and fill 'em up as best we can .
14 I 've nothing about me but some hard cash and a jack-knife .
15 I 'll give each of 'em a quarter and the boy can have the knife . ''
16 `` I 've nothing but money either , '' said the sealskin lady regretfully .
17 Aunt Cyrilla glanced at the little mother .
18 She had fallen asleep with her head against the seat-back .
19 `` I 've got a basket over there , '' said Aunt Cyrilla firmly , `` and I 've some presents in it that I was taking to my nephew 's children .
20 I 'm going to give 'em to these .
21 As for the XXXXX , I think the mother is the one for it to go to .	money		Aunt|basket|fill|girl|minister|money|nephew|overcoat|shawl|work

1 And she began thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself , to see if she could have been changed for any of them .
2 ` I 'm sure I 'm not Ada , ' she said , ` for her hair goes in such long ringlets , and mine does n't go in ringlets at all ; and I 'm sure I ca n't be Mabel , for I know all sorts of things , and she , oh !
3 she knows such a very little !
4 Besides , SHE 'S she , and I 'm I , and -- oh dear , how puzzling it all is !
5 I 'll try if I know all the things I used to know .
6 Let me see : four times five is twelve , and four times six is thirteen , and four times seven is -- oh dear !
7 I shall never get to twenty at that rate !
8 However , the Multiplication Table does n't signify : let 's try Geography .
9 London is the capital of Paris , and Paris is the capital of Rome , and Rome -- no , THAT 'S all wrong , I 'm certain !
10 I must have been changed for Mabel !
11 I 'll try and say `` How doth the little -- '' ' and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons , and began to repeat it , but her voice sounded hoarse and strange , and the words did not come the same as they used to do : -- ` How doth the little crocodile Improve his shining tail , And pour the waters of the Nile On every golden scale !
12 ` How cheerfully he seems to grin , How neatly spread his claws , And welcome little fishes in With gently smiling jaws ! '
13 ` I 'm sure those are not the right words , ' said poor Alice , and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on , ' I must be Mabel after all , and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house , and have next to no toys to play with , and oh !
14 ever so many lessons to learn !
15 No , I 've made up my mind about it ; if I 'm Mabel , I 'll stay down here !
16 It 'll be no use their putting their heads down and saying `` Come up again , dear ! ''
17 I shall only look up and say `` Who am I then ?
18 Tell me that first , and then , if I like being that person , I 'll come up : if not , I 'll stay down here till I 'm somebody else '' -- but , oh dear ! '
19 cried Alice , with a sudden burst of tears , ' I do wish they WOULD put their heads down !
20 I am so VERY tired of being all alone here ! '
21 As she said this she looked down at her XXXXX , and was surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit 's little white kid gloves while she was talking .	hands		capital|grin|hands|heads|lap|lessons|mind|rate|somebody|tail

1 He tied his horse to the fence and looked doubtfully about him .
2 Untrodden snowdrifts were heaped about the front door , so he turned towards the kitchen and walked slowly past the bare lilac trees along the fence .
3 There was no sign of life about the place .
4 It was beginning to snow again , softly and thickly , and the hills and river were hidden behind a misty white veil .
5 He lifted his hand to knock , but before he could do so , the door was flung open and Min herself confronted him on the threshold .
6 She did not now have on the man 's overcoat which she had worn at the store , and her neat , close-fitting home-spun dress revealed to perfection the full , magnificent curves of her figure .
7 Her splendid hair was braided about her head in a glossy coronet , and her dark eyes were ablaze with ill-suppressed anger .
8 Again Telford was overcome by a sense of her wonderful loveliness .
9 Not all the years of bondage to ill-temper and misguided will had been able to blot out the beauty of that proud , dark face .
10 She lifted one large but shapely brown hand and pointed to the gate .
11 `` Go ! ''
12 she said threateningly .
13 `` Mrs. Palmer , '' began Telford , but she silenced him with an imperious gesture .
14 `` I do n't want any of your kind here .
15 I hate all you ministers .
16 Did you come here to lecture me ?
17 I suppose some of the Corner saints set you on me .
18 You 'll never cross my threshold . ''
19 Telford returned her defiant gaze unflinchingly .
20 His dark-blue eyes , magnetic in their power and sweetness , looked gravely , questioningly , into Min 's stormy orbs .
21 Slowly the fire and anger faded out of her face and her XXXXX drooped .	head		beauty|door|eyes|head|hills|horse|power|sweetness|threshold|veil

1 Why , he just pulled that old board over .
2 And when he did that , he saw , whom do you think ?
3 Why , Old Mr. Toad , to be sure .
4 But such a sight as Old Mr. Toad was !
5 Peter just stared .
6 For a full minute he could n't find his voice .
7 Old Mr. Toad was changing his clothes !
8 Yes , Sir , that is just what Old Mr. Toad was doing .
9 He was taking off his old suit , and under it was a brand new one .
10 But such a time as he was having !
11 He was opening and shutting his big mouth , and drawing his hind legs under him , and rubbing them against his body .
12 Then Peter saw a strange thing .
13 He saw that Old Mr. Toad 's old suit had split in several places , and he was getting it off by sucking it into his mouth !
14 In a few minutes his hind legs were free of the old suit , and little by little it began to be pulled free from his body .
15 All the time Old Mr. Toad was working very hard to suck it at the corners of his big mouth .
16 He glared angrily at Peter , but he could n't say anything because his mouth was too full .
17 He looked so funny that Peter just threw himself on the ground and rolled over and over with laughter .
18 This made Old Mr. Toad glare more angrily than ever , but he could n't say anything , not a word .
19 When he had got his hands free by pulling the sleeves of his old coat off inside out , he used his hands to pull the last of it over his head .
20 Then he gulped very hard two or three times to swallow his old suit , and when the last of it had disappeared , he found his voice .
21 `` Do n't you know that it is the most impolite XXXXX in the world to look at people when they are changing their clothes ? ''	thing		Mr.|Sir|board|body|coat|head|laughter|suit|thing|time

1 Luckily she only found his wife at home , who was much struck by the Princess 's youth and beauty and sweet gentle manners , and still further impressed by the present of the shining pebble .
2 She readily let Fairer-than-a-Fairy have the fire , and in return for the stone she gave her another , which , she said , might prove useful some day .
3 Then she sent her away without doing her any harm .
4 Lagree was as much surprised as displeased at the happy result of this expedition , and Fairer-than-a Fairy waited anxiously for an opportunity of meeting Prince Rainbow and telling him her adventures .
5 She found , however , that he had already been told all about them by a Fairy who protected him , and to whom he was related .
6 The dread of fresh dangers to his beloved Princess made him devise some more convenient way of meeting than by the garden fountain , and Fairer-than-a-Fairy carried out his plan daily with entire success .
7 Every morning she placed a large basin full of water on her window-sill , and as soon as the sun 's rays fell on the water the Rainbow appeared as clearly as it had ever done in the fountain .
8 By this means they were able to meet without losing sight of the fire or of the two bottles in which the old Fairy kept her eye and her tooth at night , and for some time the lovers enjoyed every hour of sunshine together .
9 One day Prince Rainbow appeared in the depths of woe .
10 He had just heard that he was to be banished from this lovely spot , but he had no idea where he was to go .
11 The poor young couple were in despair , and only parted with the last ray of sunshine , and in hopes of meeting next morning .
12 Alas !
13 next day was dark and gloomy , and it was only late in the afternoon that the sun broke through the clouds for a few minutes .
14 Fairer-than-a-Fairy eagerly ran to the window , but in her haste she upset the basin , and spilt all the water with which she had carefully filled it overnight .
15 No other water was at hand except that in the two bottles .
16 It was the only chance of seeing her lover before they were separated , and she did not hesitate to break the bottle and pour their contents into the basin , when the Rainbow appeared at once .
17 Their farewells were full of tenderness ; the Prince made the most ardent and sincere protestations , and promised to neglect nothing which might help to deliver his dear Fairer-than-a-Fairy from her captivity , and implored her to consent to their marriage as soon as they should both be free .
18 The Princess , on her side , vowed to have no other husband , and declared herself willing to brave death itself in order to rejoin him .
19 They were not allowed much time for their adieus ; the Rainbow vanished , and the Princess , resolved to run all risks , started off at once , taking nothing with her but her dog , her cat , a sprig of myrtle , and the stone which the wife of Locrinos gave her .
20 When Lagree became aware of her prisoner 's flight she was furious , and set off at full speed in pursuit .
21 She overtook her just as the poor girl , overcome by fatigue , had lain down to rest in a cave which the XXXXX had formed itself into to shelter her .	stone		death|despair|dread|fountain|harm|haste|spot|stone|tooth|window

1 Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook , to see if she meant to take the hint ; but the cook was busily stirring the soup , and seemed not to be listening , so she went on again : ` Twenty-four hours , I THINK ; or is it twelve ?
2 I -- ' ` Oh , do n't bother ME , ' said the Duchess ; ' I never could abide figures ! '
3 And with that she began nursing her child again , singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so , and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line : ` Speak roughly to your little boy , And beat him when he sneezes : He only does it to annoy , Because he knows it teases . '
4 CHORUS .
5 -LRB- In which the cook and the baby joined -RRB- : -- ` Wow !
6 wow !
7 wow ! '
8 While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song , she kept tossing the baby violently up and down , and the poor little thing howled so , that Alice could hardly hear the words : -- ' I speak severely to my boy , I beat him when he sneezes ; For he can thoroughly enjoy The pepper when he pleases ! '
9 CHORUS .
10 ` Wow !
11 wow !
12 wow ! '
13 ` Here !
14 you may nurse it a bit , if you like ! '
15 the Duchess said to Alice , flinging the baby at her as she spoke . '
16 I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen , ' and she hurried out of the room .
17 The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out , but it just missed her .
18 Alice caught the baby with some difficulty , as it was a queer-shaped little creature , and held out its arms and legs in all directions , ` just like a star-fish , ' thought Alice .
19 The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it , and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again , so that altogether , for the first minute or two , it was as much as she could do to hold it .
20 As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it , -LRB- which was to twist it up into a sort of knot , and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot , so as to prevent its undoing itself , -RRB- she carried it out into the open air .
21 ` IF I do n't take this XXXXX away with me , ' thought Alice , ` they 're sure to kill it in a day or two : would n't it be murder to leave it behind ? '	child		arms|baby|bit|child|figures|hint|nurse|room|soup|words

1 And Martin spoke to the King , saying , ` King and royal father , I have suffered much at the hands of your daughter .
2 What punishment shall be dealt to her ? '
3 Then the mild King answered : ` Beloved Prince and son-in-law , if you love me , let your anger be turned to grace -- forgive my daughter , and restore her to your heart and favour . '
4 And Martin 's heart was softened and he forgave his wife , and they lived happily together ever after .
5 And his old mother came and lived with him , and he never parted with Schurka and Waska ; and I need hardly tell you that he never again let the ring out of his possession .
6 THE FLOWER QUEEN 'S DAUGHTER -LRB- 23 -RRB- -LRB- 23 -RRB- From the Bukowinaer .
7 Von Wliolocki .
8 A young Prince was riding one day through a meadow that stretched for miles in front of him , when he came to a deep open ditch .
9 He was turning aside to avoid it , when he heard the sound of someone crying in the ditch .
10 He dismounted from his horse , and stepped along in the direction the sound came from .
11 To his astonishment he found an old woman , who begged him to help her out of the ditch .
12 The Prince bent down and lifted her out of her living grave , asking her at the same time how she had managed to get there .
13 ` My son , ' answered the old woman , ' I am a very poor woman , and soon after midnight I set out for the neighbouring town in order to sell my eggs in the market on the following morning ; but I lost my way in the dark , and fell into this deep ditch , where I might have remained for ever but for your kindness . '
14 Then the Prince said to her , ` You can hardly walk ; I will put you on my horse and lead you home .
15 Where do you live ? '
16 ` Over there , at the edge of the forest in the little hut you see in the distance , ' replied the old woman .
17 The Prince lifted her on to his horse , and soon they reached the hut , where the old woman got down , and turning to the Prince said , ` Just wait a moment , and I will give you something . '
18 And she disappeared into her hut , but returned very soon and said , ` You are a mighty Prince , but at the same time you have a kind heart , which deserves to be rewarded .
19 Would you like to have the most beautiful woman in the world for your wife ? '
20 ` Most certainly I would , ' replied the Prince .
21 So the old woman continued , ` The most beautiful XXXXX in the whole world is the daughter of the Queen of the Flowers , who has been captured by a dragon .	woman		direction|forest|grace|hut|mother|punishment|son-in-law|time|wife|woman

1 `` Oh , you must -- or I shall think you have not really forgiven us .
2 You would never refuse the request of a bride , Cousin Corona .
3 We are queens on our wedding day , you know . ''
4 `` Oh , it 's not that , dear child -- but I 'm not dressed -- I -- '' `` I 'll help you dress .
5 And I wo n't go back without you .
6 The guests and the minister must wait if necessary -- yes , even Romney must wait .
7 Oh , I want you to meet Romney .
8 Come , dear . ''
9 And Miss Corona went .
10 Charlotta and the bride got her into her grey silk and did her hair , and in a very short time she and Juliet were hurrying down the old field-path .
11 In the hollow Meredith Gordon met them .
12 `` Cousin Meredith , '' said Miss Corona tremulously .
13 `` Dear Corona . ''
14 He took both her hands in his , and kissed her heartily .
15 `` Forgive me for misunderstanding you so long .
16 I thought you hated us all . ''
17 Turning to Juliet , he said with a fatherly smile , `` What a terrible girl it is for having its own way !
18 Who ever heard of a Gordon bride doing such an unconventional thing ?
19 There , scamper off to the house before your guests come .
20 Laura has made your roses up into what she calls ' a dream of a bouquet , ' I 'll take Cousin Corona up more leisurely . ''
21 `` Oh , I knew that something beautiful was going to happen when the old rose-tree bloomed , '' murmured XXXXX Corona happily .	Miss		Cousin|Miss|bouquet|hands|minister|request|roses|silk|thing|wedding

1 This splendid palace had been built by the grateful queen bee , who had summoned all the other bees in the kingdom to help her .
2 The King 's amazement knew no bounds , and the Princess 's eyes beamed with delight as she turned them from the wonderful building on the delighted Ferko .
3 But the two brothers had grown quite green with envy , and only declared the more that Ferko was nothing but a wicked magician .
4 The King , although he had been surprised and astonished at the way his commands had been carried out , was very vexed that the stranger should escape with his life , and turning to the two brothers he said , ` He has certainly accomplished the first task , with the aid no doubt of his diabolical magic ; but what shall we give him to do now ?
5 Let us make it as difficult as possible , and if he fails he shall die . '
6 Then the eldest brother replied , ` The corn has all been cut , but it has not yet been put into barns ; let the knave collect all the grain in the kingdom into one big heap before to-morrow night , and if as much as a stalk of corn is left let him be put to death .
7 The Princess grew white with terror when she heard these words ; but Ferko felt much more cheerful than he had done the first time , and wandered out into the meadows again , wondering how he was to get out of the difficulty .
8 But he could think of no way of escape .
9 The sun sank to rest and night came on , when a little mouse started out of the grass at Ferko 's feet , and said to him , ` I 'm delighted to see you , my kind benefactor ; but why are you looking so sad ?
10 Can I be of any help to you , and thus repay your great kindness to me ? '
11 Then Ferko recognised the mouse whose front paws he had healed , and replied , ` Alas I how can you help me in a matter that is beyond any human power !
12 Before to-morrow night all the grain in the kingdom has to be gathered into one big heap , and if as much as a stalk of corn is wanting I must pay for it with my life . '
13 ` Is that all ? '
14 answered the mouse ; ` that need n't distress you much .
15 Just trust in me , and before the sun sets again you shall hear that your task is done . '
16 And with these words the little creature scampered away into the fields .
17 Ferko , who never doubted that the mouse would be as good as its word , lay down comforted on the soft grass and slept soundly till next morning .
18 The day passed slowly , and with the evening came the little mouse and said , ` Now there is not a single stalk of corn left in any field ; they are all collected in one big heap on the hill out there . '
19 Then Ferko went joyfully to the King and told him that all he demanded had been done .
20 And the whole Court went out to see the wonder , and were no less astonished than they had been the first time .
21 For in a heap higher than the King 's palace lay all the XXXXX of the country , and not a single stalk of corn had been left behind in any of the fields .	grain		brother|brothers|creature|day|death|distress|envy|grain|nothing|paws

1 First of all , though , they had to get a ladder of fourteen steps , to enable them to get on to the Eagle 's back , and there they piled up the meat as well as they could .
2 Then the old man told the Irishman to mount , and to remember to throw a quarter of beef to her every time she looked round .
3 He went up , and the old man gave the Eagle the word to be off , which she instantly obeyed ; and every time she turned her head the Irishman threw a quarter of beef into her mouth .
4 As they came near the borders of the kingdom of the Blue Mountains , however , the beef was done , and , when the Eagle looked over her shoulder , what was the Irishman at but throwing the stone between her tail and her neck !
5 At this she turned a complete somersault , and threw the Irishman off into the sea , where he fell into the bay that was right in front of the King 's Palace .
6 Fortunately the points of his toes just touched the bottom , and he managed to get ashore .
7 When he went up into the town all the streets were gleaming with light , and the wedding of the Princess was just about to begin .
8 He went into the first house he came to , and this happened to be the house of the King 's hen-wife .
9 He asked the old woman what was causing all the noise and light in the town .
10 ` The Princess , ' said she , ` is going to be married to-night against her will , for she has been expecting every day that the man who freed her from the spell would come . '
11 ` There is a guinea for you , ' said he ; ` go and bring her here . '
12 The old woman went , and soon returned along with the Princess .
13 She and the Irishman recognised each other , and were married , and had a great wedding that lasted for a year and a day .
14 THE TINDER-BOX A soldier came marching along the high road -- left , right !
15 A left , right !
16 He had his knapsack on his back and a sword by his side , for he had been to the wars and was now returning home .
17 An old Witch met him on the road .
18 She was very ugly to look at : her under-lip hung down to her breast .
19 ` Good evening , Soldier ! '
20 she said .
21 ` What a fine XXXXX and knapsack you have !	sword		bay|man|meat|neck|points|sea|steps|stone|sword|woman

1 It did n't seem possible that such a great paw could be so gentle .
2 `` Now , '' said Buster Bear in a voice which he tried to make sound pleasant , but which was grumbly-rumbly just the same , `` I know where there is a fine dinner waiting for us just a little way from here .
3 You follow me , and we 'll have it in no time . ''
4 So Buster Bear led the way , and Old Mr. Toad followed as fast as he could , because he did n't dare not to .
5 Presently Buster stopped beside a big decayed old log .
6 `` If you are ready , Mr. Toad , we will dine now , '' said he .
7 Old Mr. Toad did n't see anything to eat .
8 His heart sank again , and he shook all over .
9 `` I -- I 'm not hungry , '' said he in a very faint voice .
10 Buster Bear did n't seem to hear .
11 He hooked his great claws into the old log and gave a mighty pull .
12 Over rolled the log , and there were ants and ants and ants , hurrying this way and scurrying that way , more ants than Mr. Toad had seen in all his life before !
13 `` Help yourself , '' said Buster Bear politely .
14 Old Mr. Toad did n't wait to be told twice .
15 He forgot all about his fright .
16 He forgot all about Buster Bear .
17 He forgot that he was n't hungry .
18 He forgot his manners .
19 He jumped right in among those ants , and for a little while he was the busiest Toad ever seen .
20 Buster Bear was busy too .
21 He swept his long tongue this way , and he swept it that way , and each time he drew it back into his mouth , it was covered with XXXXX .	ants		Mr.|ants|heart|log|manners|paw|pull|time|voice|way

1 But in spite of the swiftness with which they flew through the air , the time passed even quicker for Saphir and Serpentine , who had so much to think about .
2 They were still quite confused with the pleasure of seeing each other , when the chariot arrived at King Peridor 's palace .
3 He had had himself carried to a room on the roof , where his nurses thought that he would die at any moment .
4 Directly the chariot drew within sight of the castle the beautiful bird took flight , and , making straight for the dying King , at once cured him of his sickness .
5 Then she resumed her natural shape , and he found that the bird was no other than the Queen Constance , whom he had long believed to be dead .
6 Peridor was rejoiced to embrace his wife and his son once more , and with the help of the fairies began to make preparations for the marriage of Saphir and Serpentine , who turned out to be the daughter of Aglantine and Diamantino , and as much a princess as he was a prince .
7 The people of the kingdom were delighted , and everybody lived happy and contented to the end of their lives .
8 THE SEVEN-HEADED SERPENT -LRB- 9 -RRB- -LRB- 9 -RRB- ` Die Siebenkopfige Schlange , ' from Schmidt 's Griechische Mahrchen .
9 Once upon a time there was a king who determined to take a long voyage .
10 He assembled his fleet and all the seamen , and set out .
11 They went straight on night and day , until they came to an island which was covered with large trees , and under every tree lay a lion .
12 As soon as the King had landed his men , the lions all rose up together and tried to devour them .
13 After a long battle they managed to overcome the wild beasts , but the greater number of the men were killed .
14 Those who remained alive now went on through the forest and found on the other side of it a beautiful garden , in which all the plants of the world flourished together .
15 There were also in the garden three springs : the first flowed with silver , the second with gold , and the third with pearls .
16 The men unbuckled their knapsacks and filled them with those precious things .
17 In the middle of the garden they found a large lake , and when they reached the edge of it the Lake began to speak , and said to them , ` What men are you , and what brings you here ?
18 Are you come to visit our king ? '
19 But they were too much frightened to answer .
20 Then the Lake said , ` You do well to be afraid , for it is at your peril that you are come hither .
21 Our XXXXX , who has seven heads , is now asleep , but in a few minutes he will wake up and come to me to take his bath !	king		air|king|kingdom|lives|palace|roof|room|seamen|trees|wife

1 ` Ah !
2 Waska , my faithful little cat , is that you ? '
3 replied a weak voice . '
4 I am dying of hunger .
5 For three days I have not tasted food . '
6 ` Be of good heart , dear master , ' replied Waska ; ` from this day forth you will know nothing but happiness and prosperity .
7 If this were a moment to trouble you with riddles , I would make you guess what Schurka and I have brought you back .
8 Only think , we have got you your ring ! '
9 At these words Martin 's joy knew no bounds , and he stroked her fondly , and she rubbed up against him and purred happily , while below Schurka bounded in the air , and barked joyfully .
10 Then Martin took the ring , and threw it from one hand into the other , and instantly the twelve youths appeared and asked what they were to do .
11 ` Fetch me first something to eat and drink , as quickly as possible ; and after that bring musicians hither , and let us have music all day long . '
12 Now when the people in the town and palace heard music coming from the tower they were filled with amazement , and came to the King with the news that witchcraft must be going on in Martin 's Tower , for , instead of dying of starvation , he was seemingly making merry to the sound of music , and to the clatter of plates , and glass , and knives and forks ; and the music was so enchantingly sweet that all the passers-by stood still to listen to it .
13 On this the King sent at once a messenger to the Starvation Tower , and he was so astonished with what he saw that he remained rooted to the spot .
14 Then the King sent his chief counsellors , and they too were transfixed with wonder .
15 At last the King came himself , and he likewise was spellbound by the beauty of the music .
16 Then Martin summoned the twelve youths , spoke to them , saying , ` Build up my castle again , and join it to the King 's Palace with a crystal bridge ; do not forget the trees with the golden and silver apples , and with the birds of Paradise in the branches ; and put back the church with the five cupolas , and let the bells ring out , summoning the people from the four corners of the kingdom .
17 And one thing more : bring back my faithless wife , and lead her into the women 's chamber . '
18 And it was all done as he commanded , and , leaving the Starvation Tower , he took the King , his father-in-law , by the arm , and led him into the new palace , where the Princess sat in fear and trembling , awaiting her death .
19 And Martin spoke to the King , saying , ` King and royal father , I have suffered much at the hands of your daughter .
20 What punishment shall be dealt to her ? '
21 Then the mild King answered : ` Beloved Prince and son-in-law , if you love me , let your anger be turned to grace -- forgive my XXXXX , and restore her to your heart and favour . '	daughter		daughter|hands|happiness|heart|joy|messenger|something|wife|women|words

1 Only the beautiful Princess rejoiced over Ferko 's success , and looked on him with friendly glances , which the youth returned .
2 The more the cruel King gazed on the wonder before him , the more angry he became , for he could not , in the face of his promise , put the stranger to death .
3 He turned once more to the two brothers and said , ` His diabolical magic has helped him again , but now what third task shall we set him to do ?
4 No matter how impossible it is , he must do it or die . '
5 The eldest answered quickly , ` Let him drive all the wolves of the kingdom on to this hill before to-morrow night .
6 If he does this he may go free ; if not he shall be hung as you have said . '
7 At these words the Princess burst into tears , and when the King saw this he ordered her to be shut up in a high tower and carefully guarded till the dangerous magician should either have left the kingdom or been hung on the nearest tree .
8 Ferko wandered out into the fields again , and sat down on the stump of a tree wondering what he should do next .
9 Suddenly a big wolf ran up to him , and standing still said , ` I 'm very glad to see you again , my kind benefactor .
10 What are you thinking about all alone by yourself ?
11 If I can help you in any way only say the word , for I would like to give you a proof of my gratitude . '
12 Ferko at once recognised the wolf whose broken leg he had healed , and told him what he had to do the following day if he wished to escape with his life .
13 ` But how in the world , ' he added , ` am I to collect all the wolves of the kingdom on to that hill over there ? '
14 ` If that 's all you want done , ' answered the wolf , ` you need n't worry yourself .
15 I 'll undertake the task , and you 'll hear from me again before sunset to-morrow .
16 Keep your spirits up . '
17 And with these words he trotted quickly away .
18 Then the youth rejoiced greatly , for now he felt that his life was safe ; but he grew very sad when he thought of the beautiful Princess , and that he would never see her again if he left the country .
19 He lay down once more on the grass and soon fell fast asleep .
20 All the next day he spent wandering about the fields , and toward evening the wolf came running to him in a great hurry and said , ' I have collected together all the wolves in the kingdom , and they are waiting for you in the wood .
21 Go quickly to the King , and tell him to go to the hill that he may see the XXXXX you have done with his own eyes .	wonder		day|face|glances|grass|hurry|life|proof|standing|wolf|wonder

1 At the Palace gate he left everything lying , went before the King , and asked him to come that length with him , and there handed over to him the hides and horns of the oxen .
2 The King was greatly surprised at his valour , and said he knew no one like him , and thanked him heartily for what he had done .
3 After this the King set Ring next to himself , and all esteemed him highly , and held him to be a great hero ; nor could Red any longer say anything against him , though he grew still more determined to destroy him .
4 One day a good idea came into his head .
5 He came to the King and said he had something to say to him .
6 ` What is that ? '
7 said the King .
8 Red said that he had just remembered the gold cloak , gold chess-board , and bright gold piece that the King had lost about a year before .
9 ` Do n't remind me of them ! '
10 said the King .
11 Red , however , went on to say that , since Ring was such a mighty man that he could do everything , it had occurred to him to advise the King to ask him to search for these treasures , and come back with them before Christmas ; in return the King should promise him his daughter .
12 The King replied that he thought it altogether unbecoming to propose such a thing to Ring , seeing that he could not tell him where the things were ; but Red pretended not to hear the King 's excuses , and went on talking about it until the King gave in to him .
13 One day , a month or so before Christmas , the King spoke to Ring , saying that he wished to ask a great favour of him .
14 ` What is that ? '
15 said Ring .
16 ` It is this , ' said the King : ` that you find for me my gold cloak , my gold chess-board , and my bright gold piece , that were stolen from me about a year ago .
17 If you can bring them to me before Christmas I will give you my daughter in marriage . '
18 ` Where am I to look for them , then ? '
19 said Ring .
20 ` That you must find out for yourself , ' said the King : ' I do n't know . '
21 Ring now left the King , and was very silent , for he saw he was in a great difficulty : but , on the other hand , he thought it was excellent to have such a chance of winning the King 's XXXXX .	daughter		Christmas|Ring|anything|daughter|everything|hero|idea|return|something|treasures

1 `` Perhaps you 'll hit on some plan yet to earn that money , and if you do -- well , it will prove that you have good stuff in you . ''
2 `` I think it would , '' laughed Ned to himself , as he trudged away .
3 `` A quiet little farming village in winter is n't exactly a promising field for financial operations . ''
4 At Winterby Corners Ned found a crowd of boys waiting for him , and soon paired off with his chum , Jim Slocum .
5 Jim , as usual , was grumbling because they had to go all the way to Windsor to skate .
6 `` Like as not we 'll get into a free fight with the Windsorites when we get there , and be chevied off the ice , '' he complained .
7 The rivalry which existed between the Carleton and the Windsor boys was bitter and of long standing .
8 `` We ought to be able to hold our own tonight , '' said Ned .
9 `` There 'll be thirty of us there . ''
10 `` If we could only get Old Dutcher to let us skate on his pond ! ''
11 said Jim .
12 `` It would n't hurt his old pond !
13 And the ice is always splendid on it .
14 I 'd give a lot if we could only go there . ''
15 Ned was silent .
16 A sudden idea had come to him .
17 He wondered if it were feasible .
18 `` Anyhow , I 'll try it , '' he said to himself .
19 `` I 'll interview Old Dutcher tomorrow . ''
20 The skating that night was not particularly successful .
21 The small pond at Windsor was crowded , the Windsor boys being out in force and , although no positive disturbance arose , they contrived to make matters unpleasant for the Carletonites , who tramped moodily homeward in no very good humour , most of them declaring that , skating or no XXXXX , they would not go to Windsor again .	skating		ice|idea|lot|money|plan|rivalry|skating|stuff|tonight|way

1 replied Old Mr. Toad indignantly .
2 `` If it was fastened at the other end , how could I run it out so far ? ''
3 `` But mine and all other tongues that I ever have seen are fastened way down in the throat , '' protested Peter .
4 `` Yours is fastened at the other end , way in the very front of your mouth .
5 I never heard of such a thing . ''
6 `` There are a great many things you have never heard of , Peter Rabbit , '' replied Old Mr. Toad drily .
7 `` Mine is the right way to have a tongue .
8 Because it is fastened way up in the front of my mouth that way , I can use the whole of it .
9 You see it goes out its full length .
10 Then , when I draw it in with a bug on the end of it , I just turn it over so that the end that was out goes way back in my throat and takes the bug with it to just the right place to swallow . ''
11 Peter thought this over for a few minutes before he ventured another question .
12 `` I begin to understand , '' said he , `` but how do you hold on to the bug with your tongue ? ''
13 `` My tongue is sticky , of course , Mr. Stupid , '' replied Old Mr. Toad , looking very much disgusted .
14 `` Just let me touch a bug with it , and he 's mine every time . ''
15 Peter thought this over .
16 Then he felt of his own tongue .
17 `` Mine is n't sticky , '' said he very innocently .
18 Old Mr. Toad laughed right out .
19 `` Perhaps if it was , you could n't ask so many questions , '' said he .
20 `` Now watch me catch that fly . ''
21 His funny little XXXXX darted out , and the fly was gone .	tongue		Yours|course|fly|front|mouth|questions|throat|time|tongue|tongues

1 `` He used to live down in Wentworth , you know , and he visited his married sister here very often .
2 He was only a boy at that time .
3 Then -- he went out to British Columbia and -- and -- we never heard much more about him . ''
4 `` He 's very rich and owns dozens of mines and railroads and things like that , '' said Margaret , `` and he 's a member of the Dominion Parliament , too .
5 They say he 's one of the foremost men in the House and came very near getting a portfolio in the new cabinet .
6 I like men like that .
7 They are so interesting .
8 Would n't it be awfully nice and complimentary to have one of them in love with you ?
9 Is he married ? ''
10 `` I -- I do n't know , '' said Aunt Beatrice faintly .
11 `` I have never heard that he was . ''
12 `` There , you 've run the needle into your finger , '' said Margaret sympathetically .
13 `` It 's of no consequence , '' said Aunt Beatrice hastily .
14 She wiped away the drop of blood and went on with her work .
15 Margaret watched her dreamily .
16 What lovely hair Aunt Beatrice had !
17 It was so thick and glossy , with warm bronze tones where the lamp-light fell on it under that hideous weird old shade .
18 But Aunt Beatrice wore it in such an unbecoming way .
19 Margaret idly wondered if she would comb her hair straight back and prim when she was thirty-five .
20 She thought it very probable if that letter did not come tomorrow .
21 From XXXXX Beatrice 's hair Margaret 's eyes fell to Aunt Beatrice 's face .	Aunt		Aunt|cabinet|consequence|finger|hair|love|men|portfolio|time|tomorrow

1 It was great carelessness of him , she said , to leave no one to watch the ship with her .
2 Sigurd was greatly surprised to hear his Queen scold him so much , for she had never said an angry word to him before ; but he thought it was quite excusable in this case , and tried to quiet the child along with her , but it was no use .
3 Then he went and wakened the sailors , and bade them hoist the sails , for a breeze had sprung up and was blowing straight towards the harbour .
4 They soon reached the land which Sigurd was to rule over , and found all the people sorrowful for the old King 's death , but they became glad when they got Sigurd back to the Court , and made him King over them .
5 The King 's son , however , hardly ever stopped crying from the time he had been taken from his mother on the deck of the ship , although he had always been such a good child before , so that at last the King had to get a nurse for him -- one of the maids of the Court .
6 As soon as the child got into her charge he stopped crying , and behaved well as before .
7 After the sea-voyage it seemed to the King that the Queen had altered very much in many ways , and not for the better .
8 He thought her much more haughty and stubborn and difficult to deal with than she used to be .
9 Before long others began to notice this as well as the King .
10 In the Court there were two young fellows , one of eighteen years old , the other of nineteen , who were very fond of playing chess , and often sat long inside playing at it .
11 Their room was next the Queen 's , and often during the day they heard the Queen talking .
12 One day they paid more attention than usual when they heard her talk , and put their ears close to a crack in the wall between the rooms , and heard the Queen say quite plainly , ` When I yawn a little , then I am a nice little maiden ; when I yawn half-way , then I am half a troll ; and when I yawn fully , then I am a troll altogether . '
13 As she said this she yawned tremendously , and in a moment had put on the appearance of a fearfully ugly troll .
14 Then there came up through the floor of the room a three-headed Giant with a trough full of meat , who saluted her as his sister and set down the trough before her .
15 She began to eat out of it , and never stopped till she had finished it .
16 The young fellows saw all this going on , but did not hear the two of them say anything to each other .
17 They were astonished though at how greedily the Queen devoured the meat , and how much she ate of it , and were no longer surprised that she took so little when she sat at table with the King .
18 As soon as she had finished it the Giant disappeared with the trough by the same way as he had come , and the Queen returned to her human shape .
19 Now we must go back to the King 's son after he had been put in charge of the nurse .
20 One evening , after she had lit a candle and was holding the child , several planks sprang up in the floor of the room , and out at the opening came a beautiful woman dressed in white , with an iron belt round her waist , to which was fastened an iron chain that went down into the ground .
21 The woman came up to the nurse , took the child from her , and pressed it to her breast ; then she gave it back to the XXXXX and returned by the same way as she had come , and the floor closed over her again .	nurse		Court|case|day|fellows|maids|mother|nurse|planks|sister|use

1 I will sing you the praise of the bottle-tailed Rikki , with eyeballs of red !
2 -LRB- Here Rikki-tikki interrupted , and the rest of the song is lost . -RRB-
3 Toomai of the Elephants I will remember what I was , I am sick of rope and chain -- I will remember my old strength and all my forest affairs .
4 I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar-cane : I will go out to my own kind , and the wood-folk in their lairs .
5 I will go out until the day , until the morning break -- Out to the wind 's untainted kiss , the water 's clean caress ; I will forget my ankle-ring and snap my picket stake .
6 I will revisit my lost loves , and playmates masterless !
7 Kala Nag , which means Black Snake , had served the Indian Government in every way that an elephant could serve it for forty-seven years , and as he was fully twenty years old when he was caught , that makes him nearly seventy -- a ripe age for an elephant .
8 He remembered pushing , with a big leather pad on his forehead , at a gun stuck in deep mud , and that was before the Afghan War of 1842 , and he had not then come to his full strength .
9 His mother Radha Pyari , -- Radha the darling , -- who had been caught in the same drive with Kala Nag , told him , before his little milk tusks had dropped out , that elephants who were afraid always got hurt .
10 Kala Nag knew that that advice was good , for the first time that he saw a shell burst he backed , screaming , into a stand of piled rifles , and the bayonets pricked him in all his softest places .
11 So , before he was twenty-five , he gave up being afraid , and so he was the best-loved and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of India .
12 He had carried tents , twelve hundred pounds ' weight of tents , on the march in Upper India .
13 He had been hoisted into a ship at the end of a steam crane and taken for days across the water , and made to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India , and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in Magdala , and had come back again in the steamer entitled , so the soldiers said , to the Abyssinian War medal .
14 He had seen his fellow elephants die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid , ten years later ; and afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles south to haul and pile big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein .
15 There he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was shirking his fair share of work .
16 After that he was taken off timber-hauling , and employed , with a few score other elephants who were trained to the business , in helping to catch wild elephants among the Garo hills .
17 Elephants are very strictly preserved by the Indian Government .
18 There is one whole department which does nothing else but hunt them , and catch them , and break them in , and send them up and down the country as they are needed for work .
19 Kala Nag stood ten fair feet at the shoulders , and his tusks had been cut off short at five feet , and bound round the ends , to prevent them splitting , with bands of copper ; but he could do more with those stumps than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpened ones .
20 When , after weeks and weeks of cautious driving of scattered elephants across the hills , the forty or fifty wild monsters were driven into the last stockade , and the big drop gate , made of tree trunks lashed together , jarred down behind them , Kala Nag , at the word of command , would go into that flaring , trumpeting pandemonium -LRB- generally at night , when the flicker of the torches made it difficult to judge distances -RRB- , and , picking out the biggest and wildest tusker of the mob , would hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the backs of the other elephants roped and tied the smaller ones .
21 There was nothing in the way of fighting that Kala Nag , the old wise Black XXXXX , did not know , for he had stood up more than once in his time to the charge of the wounded tiger , and , curling up his soft trunk to be out of harm 's way , had knocked the springing brute sideways in mid-air with a quick sickle cut of his head , that he had invented all by himself ; had knocked him over , and kneeled upon him with his huge knees till the life went out with a gasp and a howl , and there was only a fluffy striped thing on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail .	Snake		Snake|break|elephant|ends|feet|place|praise|strength|tusks|years

1 The train hands were invited in to share it .
2 The minister carved the chicken with the brakeman 's jack-knife and the khaki boy cut up the tongue and the mince pies , while the sealskin lady mixed the raspberry vinegar with its due proportion of water .
3 Bits of paper served as plates .
4 The train furnished a couple of glasses , a tin pint cup was discovered and given to the children , Aunt Cyrilla and Lucy Rose and the sealskin lady drank , turn about , from the latter 's graduated medicine glass , the shop girl and the little mother shared one of the empty bottles , and the khaki boy , the minister , and the train men drank out of the other bottle .
5 Everybody declared they had never enjoyed a meal more in their lives .
6 Certainly it was a merry one , and Aunt Cyrilla 's cooking was never more appreciated ; indeed , the bones of the chicken and the pot of preserves were all that was left .
7 They could not eat the preserves because they had no spoons , so Aunt Cyrilla gave them to the little mother .
8 When all was over , a hearty vote of thanks was passed to Aunt Cyrilla and her basket .
9 The sealskin lady wanted to know how she made her pound cake , and the khaki boy asked for her receipt for jelly cookies .
10 And when two hours later the conductor came in and said the snowploughs had got along and they 'd soon be starting , they all wondered if it could really be less than twenty-four hours since they met .
11 `` I feel as if I 'd been campaigning with you all my life , '' said the khaki boy .
12 At the next station they all parted .
13 The little mother and the children had to take the next train back home .
14 The minister stayed there , and the khaki boy and the sealskin lady changed trains .
15 The sealskin lady shook Aunt Cyrilla 's hand .
16 She no longer looked discontented or cross .
17 `` This has been the pleasantest Christmas I have ever spent , '' she said heartily .
18 `` I shall never forget that wonderful basket of yours .
19 The little shop girl is going home with me .
20 I 've promised her a place in my husband 's store . ''
21 When XXXXX Cyrilla and Lucy Rose reached Pembroke there was nobody to meet them because everyone had given up expecting them .	Aunt		Aunt|Christmas|bones|children|home|husband|lady|life|meal|place

1 Fairer-than-a-Fairy eagerly ran to the window , but in her haste she upset the basin , and spilt all the water with which she had carefully filled it overnight .
2 No other water was at hand except that in the two bottles .
3 It was the only chance of seeing her lover before they were separated , and she did not hesitate to break the bottle and pour their contents into the basin , when the Rainbow appeared at once .
4 Their farewells were full of tenderness ; the Prince made the most ardent and sincere protestations , and promised to neglect nothing which might help to deliver his dear Fairer-than-a-Fairy from her captivity , and implored her to consent to their marriage as soon as they should both be free .
5 The Princess , on her side , vowed to have no other husband , and declared herself willing to brave death itself in order to rejoin him .
6 They were not allowed much time for their adieus ; the Rainbow vanished , and the Princess , resolved to run all risks , started off at once , taking nothing with her but her dog , her cat , a sprig of myrtle , and the stone which the wife of Locrinos gave her .
7 When Lagree became aware of her prisoner 's flight she was furious , and set off at full speed in pursuit .
8 She overtook her just as the poor girl , overcome by fatigue , had lain down to rest in a cave which the stone had formed itself into to shelter her .
9 The little dog who was watching her mistress promptly flew at Lagree and bit her so severely that she stumbled against a corner of the cave and broke off her only tooth .
10 Before she had recovered from the pain and rage this caused her , the Princess had time to escape , and was some way on her road .
11 Fear gave her strength for some time , but at last she could go no further , and sank down to rest .
12 As she did so , the sprig of myrtle she carried touched the ground , and immediately a green and shady bower sprang up round her , in which she hoped to sleep in peace .
13 But Lagree had not given up her pursuit , and arrived just as Fairer-than-a-Fairy had fallen fast asleep .
14 This time she made sure of catching her victim , but the cat spied her out , and , springing from one of the boughs of the arbour she flew at Lagree 's face and tore out her only eye , thus delivering the Princess for ever from her persecutor .
15 One might have thought that all would now be well , but no sooner had Lagree been put to fight than our heroine was overwhelmed with hunger and thirst .
16 She felt as though she should certainly expire , and it was with some difficulty that she dragged herself as far as a pretty little green and white house , which stood at no great distance .
17 Here she was received by a beautiful lady dressed in green and white to match the house , which apparently belonged to her , and of which she seemed the only inhabitant .
18 She greeted the fainting Princess most kindly , gave her an excellent supper , and after a long night 's rest in a delightful bed told her that after many troubles she should finally attain her desire .
19 As the green and white lady took leave of the Princess she gave her a nut , desiring her only to open it in the most urgent need .
20 After a long and tiring journey Fairer-than-a-Fairy was once more received in a house , and by a lady exactly like the one she had quitted .
21 Here again she received a present with the same injunctions , but instead of a nut this XXXXX gave her a golden pomegranate .	lady		Fear|boughs|bower|distance|face|husband|lady|prisoner|strength|troubles

1 ` How easy he is to carry now !
2 That must be because I heard part of the service . '
3 So he went to the river , which was deep and broad , threw in the sack with the old driver , and called after it , for he thought Little Klaus was inside : ` Down you go !
4 You wo n't mock me any more now ! '
5 Then he went home ; but when he came to the cross-roads , there he met Little Klaus , who was driving his cattle .
6 ` What 's this ? '
7 said Big Klaus .
8 ` Have n't I drowned you ? '
9 ` Yes , ' replied Little Klaus ; ` you threw me into the river a good half-hour ago ! '
10 ` But how did you get those splendid cattle ? '
11 asked Big Klaus .
12 ` They are sea-cattle ! '
13 said Little Klaus . '
14 I will tell you the whole story , and I thank you for having drowned me , because now I am on dry land and really rich !
15 How frightened I was when I was in the sack !
16 How the wind whistled in my ears as you threw me from the bridge into the cold water !
17 I sank at once to the bottom ; but I did not hurt myself for underneath was growing the most beautiful soft grass .
18 I fell on this , and immediately the sack opened ; the loveliest maiden in snow-white garments , with a green garland round her wet hair , took me by the hand , and said ! ''
19 Are you Little Klaus ?
20 Here are some cattle for you to begin with , and a mile farther down the road there is another herd , which I will give you as a present ! ''
21 Now I saw that the XXXXX was a great high-road for the sea-people .	river		bridge|ears|grass|half-hour|land|part|river|service|water|wind

1 ` My son , ' answered the old woman , ' I am a very poor woman , and soon after midnight I set out for the neighbouring town in order to sell my eggs in the market on the following morning ; but I lost my way in the dark , and fell into this deep ditch , where I might have remained for ever but for your kindness . '
2 Then the Prince said to her , ` You can hardly walk ; I will put you on my horse and lead you home .
3 Where do you live ? '
4 ` Over there , at the edge of the forest in the little hut you see in the distance , ' replied the old woman .
5 The Prince lifted her on to his horse , and soon they reached the hut , where the old woman got down , and turning to the Prince said , ` Just wait a moment , and I will give you something . '
6 And she disappeared into her hut , but returned very soon and said , ` You are a mighty Prince , but at the same time you have a kind heart , which deserves to be rewarded .
7 Would you like to have the most beautiful woman in the world for your wife ? '
8 ` Most certainly I would , ' replied the Prince .
9 So the old woman continued , ` The most beautiful woman in the whole world is the daughter of the Queen of the Flowers , who has been captured by a dragon .
10 If you wish to marry her , you must first set her free , and this I will help you to do .
11 I will give you this little bell : if you ring it once , the King of the Eagles will appear ; if you ring it twice , the King of the Foxes will come to you ; and if you ring it three times , you will see the King of the Fishes by your side .
12 These will help you if you are in any difficulty .
13 Now farewell , and heaven prosper your undertaking . '
14 She handed him the little bell , and there disappeared hut and all , as though the earth had swallowed her up .
15 Then it dawned on the Prince that he had been speaking to a good fairy , and putting the little bell carefully in his pocket , he rode home and told his father that he meant to set the daughter of the Flower Queen free , and intended setting out on the following day into the wide world in search of the maid .
16 So the next morning the Prince mounted his fine horse and left his home .
17 He had roamed round the world for a whole year , and his horse had died of exhaustion , while he himself had suffered much from want and misery , but still he had come on no trace of her he was in search of .
18 At last one day he came to a hut , in front of which sat a very old man .
19 The Prince asked him , ` Do you not know where the Dragon lives who keeps the daughter of the Flower Queen prisoner ? '
20 ` No , I do not , ' answered the old man .
21 ` But if you go straight along this road for a year , you will reach a hut where my XXXXX lives , and possibly he may be able to tell you . '	father		Flower|daughter|fairy|farewell|father|forest|front|heaven|pocket|times

1 The Prince , who felt more hopeful than he had done since he left home , did precisely as he had been ordered .
2 He left his attendants in the hamlet , found the road the frog had described to him , and followed it all alone , and at last he arrived at the gate of the castle , which was even more splendid than he had expected , for it was built of crystal , and all its ornaments were of massive gold .
3 However , he had no thoughts to spare for its beauty , and quickly buried his grain of sand in the earth .
4 In one instant the gates flew open , and all the dwellers inside fell sound asleep .
5 Saphir flew straight to the stable , and already had his hand on the finest horse it contained , when his eye was caught by a suit of magnificent harness hanging up close by .
6 It occurred to him directly that the harness belonged to the horse , and without ever thinking of harm -LRB- for indeed he who steals a horse can hardly be blamed for taking his saddle -RRB- , he hastily placed it on the animal 's back .
7 Suddenly the people in the castle became broad awake , and rushed to the stable .
8 They flung themselves on the Prince , seized him , and dragged him before their lord ; but , luckily for the Prince , who could only find very lame excuses for his conduct , the lord of the castle took a fancy to his face , and let him depart without further questions .
9 Very sad , and very much ashamed of himself poor Saphir crept back to the fountain , where the Frog was awaiting him with a good scolding .
10 ` Whom do you take me for ? '
11 she exclaimed angrily .
12 ` Do you really believe that it was just for the pleasure of talking that I gave you the advice you have neglected so abominably ? '
13 But the Prince was so deeply grieved , and apologised so very humbly , that after some time the heart of the good little Frog was softened , and she gave him another tiny little grain , but instead of being sand it was now a grain of gold .
14 She directed him to do just as he had done before , with only this difference , that instead of going to the stable which had been the ruin of his hopes , he was to enter right into the castle itself , and to glide as fast as he could down the passages till he came to a room filled with perfume , where he would find a beautiful maiden asleep on a bed .
15 He was to wake the maiden instantly and carry her off , and to be sure not to pay any heed to whatever resistance she might make .
16 The Prince obeyed the Frog 's orders one by one , and all went well for this second time also .
17 The gate opened , the inhabitants fell sound asleep , and he walked down the passage till he found the girl on her bed , exactly as he had been told he would .
18 He woke her , and begged her firmly , but politely , to follow him quickly .
19 After a little persuasion the maiden consented , but only on condition that she was allowed first to put on her dress .
20 This sounded so reasonable and natural that it did not enter the Prince 's head to refuse her request .
21 But the XXXXX 's hand had hardly touched the dress when the palace suddenly awoke from its sleep , and the Prince was seized and bound .	maiden		Frog|beauty|conduct|dwellers|eye|girl|horse|instant|maiden|time

1 answered the other .
2 ` Why , I should drink it up in one gulp . '
3 ` Well , come with us in the ship . '
4 And so the mighty drinker was added to the company ; and the ship flew farther , and even farther , till again the Simpleton looked out , and this time he saw a man dragging a bundle of wood , walking through the forest beneath them .
5 ` Hallo ! '
6 he shouted to him , ` why are you carrying wood through a forest ? '
7 ` This is not common wood , ' answered the other .
8 ` What sort of wood is it , then ? '
9 said the Simpleton .
10 ` If you throw it upon the ground , ' said the man , ` it will be changed into an army of soldiers . '
11 ` Come into the ship with us , then . '
12 And so he too joined them ; and away the ship flew on , and on , and on , and once more the Simpleton looked out , and this time he saw a man carrying straw upon his back .
13 ` Hallo !
14 Where are you carrying that straw to ? '
15 ` To the village , ' said the man .
16 ` Do you mean to say there is no straw in the village ? '
17 ` Ah !
18 but this is quite a peculiar straw .
19 If you strew it about even in the hottest summer the air at once becomes cold , and snow falls , and the people freeze . '
20 Then the Simpleton asked him also to join them .
21 At last the XXXXX , with its strange crew , arrived at the King 's Court .	ship		Simpleton|air|company|drinker|ground|people|ship|straw|village|wood

1 how he showed his teeth , as he cried to the chips of wood and straw : ` Hold him , hold him !
2 he has not paid the toll !
3 He has not shown his passport ! '
4 But the current became swifter and stronger .
5 The Tin-soldier could already see daylight where the tunnel ended ; but in his ears there sounded a roaring enough to frighten any brave man .
6 Only think !
7 at the end of the tunnel the gutter discharged itself into a great canal ; that would be just as dangerous for him as it would be for us to go down a waterfall .
8 Now he was so near to it that he could not hold on any longer .
9 On went the boat , the poor Tin-soldier keeping himself as stiff as he could : no one should say of him afterwards that he had flinched .
10 The boat whirled three , four times round , and became filled to the brim with water : it began to sink !
11 The Tin-soldier was standing up to his neck in water , and deeper and deeper sank the boat , and softer and softer grew the paper ; now the water was over his head .
12 He was thinking of the pretty little Dancer , whose face he should never see again , and there sounded in his ears , over and over again : ` Forward , forward , soldier bold !
13 Death 's before thee , grim and cold ! '
14 The paper came in two , and the soldier fell -- but at that moment he was swallowed by a great fish .
15 Oh !
16 how dark it was inside , even darker than in the tunnel , and it was really very close quarters !
17 But there the steadfast little Tin-soldier lay full length , shouldering his gun .
18 Up and down swam the fish , then he made the most dreadful contortions , and became suddenly quite still .
19 Then it was as if a flash of lightning had passed through him ; the daylight streamed in , and a voice exclaimed , ` Why , here is the little Tin-soldier ! '
20 The fish had been caught , taken to market , sold , and brought into the kitchen , where the cook had cut it open with a great knife .
21 She took up the XXXXX between her finger and thumb , and carried him into the room , where everyone wanted to see the hero who had been found inside a fish ; but the Tin-soldier was not at all proud .	soldier		Death|ears|face|fish|kitchen|man|passport|quarters|soldier|times

1 `` Every fine Saturday you shall have a big , roomy sleigh and Nap , and drive into town for some children and bring them out here for their weekly treat as usual .
2 The house is large enough to hold them , goodness knows , and if it is n't there are the barns for the overflow .
3 This is going to be our particular pet charity all our lives , ma'am -- I mean Cordelia , my dear . ''
4 `` Blessings on old Nap , '' said Miss Cordelia with a happy light in her eyes .
5 `` He shall live in clover for the rest of his days , '' added Mr. Smiles smilingly .
6 Ned 's Stroke of Business `` Jump in , Ned ; I can give you a lift if you 're going my way . ''
7 Mr. Rogers reined up his prancing grey horse , and Ned Allen sprang lightly into the comfortable cutter .
8 The next minute they were flying down the long , glistening road , rosy-white in the sunset splendour .
9 The first snow of the season had come , and the sleighing was , as Ned said , `` dandy . ''
10 `` Going over to Windsor , I suppose , '' said Mr. Rogers , with a glance at the skates that were hanging over Ned 's shoulder .
11 `` Yes , sir ; all the Carleton boys are going over tonight .
12 The moon is out , and the ice is good .
13 We have to go in a body , or the Windsor fellows wo n't leave us alone .
14 There 's safety in numbers . ''
15 `` Pretty hard lines when boys have to go six miles for a skate , '' commented Mr. Rogers .
16 `` Well , it 's that or nothing , '' laughed Ned .
17 `` There is n't a saucerful of ice any nearer , except that small pond in Old Dutcher 's field , behind his barn .
18 And you know Old Dutcher wo n't allow a boy to set foot there .
19 He says they would knock down his fences climbing over them , and like as not set fire to his barn . ''
20 `` Old Dutcher was always a crank , '' said Mr. Rogers , `` and doubtless will be to the end .
21 By the XXXXX , I heard a rumour to the effect that you are soon going to take a course at the business college in Trenton .	way		Old|barn|cutter|eyes|miles|overflow|skate|skates|snow|way

1 The poor boy still clung on as if glued to the glass by his blood-stained hands .
2 He made no struggle to get higher , for all his strength had left him , and seeing no hope he calmly awaited death .
3 Then all of a sudden he fell into a deep sleep , and forgetful of his dangerous position , he slumbered sweetly .
4 But all the same , although he slept , he had stuck his sharp claws so firmly into the glass that he was quite safe not to fall .
5 Now the golden apple-tree was guarded by the eagle which had overthrown the golden knight and his horse .
6 Every night it flew round the Glass Mountain keeping a careful look-out , and no sooner had the moon emerged from the clouds than the bird rose up from the apple-tree , and circling round in the air , caught sight of the sleeping youth .
7 Greedy for carrion , and sure that this must be a fresh corpse , the bird swooped down upon the boy .
8 But he was awake now , and perceiving the eagle , he determined by its help to save himself .
9 The eagle dug its sharp claws into the tender flesh of the youth , but he bore the pain without a sound , and seized the bird 's two feet with his hands .
10 The creature in terror lifted him high up into the air and began to circle round the tower of the castle .
11 The youth held on bravely .
12 He saw the glittering palace , which by the pale rays of the moon looked like a dim lamp ; and he saw the high windows , and round one of them a balcony in which the beautiful Princess sat lost in sad thoughts .
13 Then the boy saw that he was close to the apple-tree , and drawing a small knife from his belt , he cut off both the eagle 's feet .
14 The bird rose up in the air in its agony and vanished into the clouds , and the youth fell on to the broad branches of the apple-tree .
15 Then he drew out the claws of the eagle 's feet that had remained in his flesh , and put the peel of one of the golden apples on the wound , and in one moment it was healed and well again .
16 He pulled several of the beautiful apples and put them in his pocket ; then he entered the castle .
17 The door was guarded by a great dragon , but as soon as he threw an apple at it , the beast vanished .
18 At the same moment a gate opened , and the youth perceived a courtyard full of flowers and beautiful trees , and on a balcony sat the lovely enchanted Princess with her retinue .
19 As soon as she saw the youth , she ran towards him and greeted him as her husband and master .
20 She gave him all her treasures , and the youth became a rich and mighty ruler .
21 But he never returned to the earth , for only the mighty XXXXX , who had been the guardian of the Princess and of the castle , could have carried on his wings the enormous treasure down to the world .	eagle		dragon|eagle|glass|master|pocket|ruler|strength|struggle|treasures|youth

1 So he endured the pangs of starvation all that day , but when night came his endurance gave way , and he let his right eye be put out and his right leg broken for a second piece of bread .
2 After his brothers had thus successfully maimed and disfigured him for life , they left him groaning on the ground and continued their journey without him .
3 Poor Ferko ate up the scrap of bread they had left him and wept bitterly , but no one heard him or came to his help .
4 Night came on , and the poor blind youth had no eyes to close , and could only crawl along the ground , not knowing in the least where he was going .
5 But when the sun was once more high in the heavens , Ferko felt the blazing heat scorch him , and sought for some cool shady place to rest his aching limbs .
6 He climbed to the top of a hill and lay down in the grass , and as he thought under the shadow of a big tree .
7 But it was no tree he leant against , but a gallows on which two ravens were seated .
8 The one was saying to the other as the weary youth lay down , ` Is there anything the least wonderful or remarkable about this neighbourhood ? ' '
9 I should just think there was , ' replied the other ; ` many things that do n't exist anywhere else in the world .
10 There is a lake down there below us , and anyone who bathes in it , though he were at death 's door , becomes sound and well on the spot , and those who wash their eyes with the dew on this hill become as sharp-sighted as the eagle , even if they have been blind from their youth . '
11 ` Well , ' answered the first raven , ` my eyes are in no want of this healing bath , for , Heaven be praised , they are as good as ever they were ; but my wing has been very feeble and weak ever since it was shot by an arrow many years ago , so let us fly at once to the lake that I may be restored to health and strength again . '
12 And so they flew away .
13 Their words rejoiced Ferko 's heart , and he waited impatiently till evening should come and he could rub the precious dew on his sightless eyes .
14 At last it began to grow dusk , and the sun sank behind the mountains ; gradually it became cooler on the hill , and the grass grew wet with dew .
15 Then Ferko buried his face in the ground till his eyes were damp with dewdrops , and in a moment he saw clearer than he had ever done in his life before .
16 The moon was shining brightly , and lighted him to the lake where he could bathe his poor broken legs .
17 Then Ferko crawled to the edge of the lake and dipped his limbs in the water .
18 No sooner had he done so than his legs felt as sound and strong as they had been before , and Ferko thanked the kind fate that had led him to the hill where he had overheard the ravens ' conversation .
19 He filled a bottle with the healing water , and then continued his journey in the best of spirits .
20 He had not gone far before he met a wolf , who was limping disconsolately along on three legs , and who on perceiving Ferko began to howl dismally .
21 ` My good friend , ' said the youth , ` be of good cheer , for I can soon heal your leg , ' and with these words he poured some of the precious water over the XXXXX 's paw , and in a minute the animal was springing about sound and well on all fours .	wolf		dew|eagle|gallows|ground|hill|howl|legs|moon|spot|wolf

1 ` No , I did n't , ' said Alice : ' I do n't think it 's at all a pity .
2 I said `` What for ? '' '
3 ` She boxed the Queen 's ears -- ' the Rabbit began .
4 Alice gave a little scream of laughter .
5 ` Oh , hush ! '
6 the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone .
7 ` The Queen will hear you !
8 You see , she came rather late , and the Queen said -- ' ` Get to your places ! '
9 shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder , and people began running about in all directions , tumbling up against each other ; however , they got settled down in a minute or two , and the game began .
10 Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in her life ; it was all ridges and furrows ; the balls were live hedgehogs , the mallets live flamingoes , and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet , to make the arches .
11 The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo : she succeeded in getting its body tucked away , comfortably enough , under her arm , with its legs hanging down , but generally , just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out , and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head , it WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face , with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing : and when she had got its head down , and was going to begin again , it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself , and was in the act of crawling away : besides all this , there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to , and , as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground , Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed .
12 The players all played at once without waiting for turns , quarrelling all the while , and fighting for the hedgehogs ; and in a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion , and went stamping about , and shouting ` Off with his head ! '
13 or ` Off with her head ! '
14 about once in a minute .
15 Alice began to feel very uneasy : to be sure , she had not as yet had any dispute with the Queen , but she knew that it might happen any minute , ` and then , ' thought she , ` what would become of me ?
16 They 're dreadfully fond of beheading people here ; the great wonder is , that there 's any one left alive ! '
17 She was looking about for some way of escape , and wondering whether she could get away without being seen , when she noticed a curious appearance in the air : it puzzled her very much at first , but , after watching it a minute or two , she made it out to be a grin , and she said to herself ` It 's the Cheshire Cat : now I shall have somebody to talk to . '
18 ` How are you getting on ? '
19 said the Cat , as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with .
20 Alice waited till the eyes appeared , and then nodded .
21 ` It 's no use speaking to it , ' she thought , 'till its XXXXX have come , or at least one of them . '	ears		Cat|air|body|ears|grin|hands|places|tone|turns|way

1 and she ran with all speed back to the little door : but , alas !
2 the little door was shut again , and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before , ` and things are worse than ever , ' thought the poor child , ` for I never was so small as this before , never !
3 And I declare it 's too bad , that it is ! '
4 As she said these words her foot slipped , and in another moment , splash !
5 she was up to her chin in salt water .
6 Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea , ` and in that case I can go back by railway , ' she said to herself .
7 -LRB- Alice had been to the seaside once in her life , and had come to the general conclusion , that wherever you go to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the sea , some children digging in the sand with wooden spades , then a row of lodging houses , and behind them a railway station . -RRB-
8 However , she soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high . '
9 I wish I had n't cried so much ! '
10 said Alice , as she swam about , trying to find her way out . '
11 I shall be punished for it now , I suppose , by being drowned in my own tears !
12 That WILL be a queer thing , to be sure !
13 However , everything is queer to-day . '
14 Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off , and she swam nearer to make out what it was : at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus , but then she remembered how small she was now , and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself .
15 ` Would it be of any use , now , ' thought Alice , ` to speak to this mouse ?
16 Everything is so out-of-the-way down here , that I should think very likely it can talk : at any rate , there 's no harm in trying . '
17 So she began : ' O Mouse , do you know the way out of this pool ?
18 I am very tired of swimming about here , O Mouse ! '
19 -LRB- Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse : she had never done such a thing before , but she remembered having seen in her brother 's Latin Grammar , ' A mouse -- of a mouse -- to a mouse -- a mouse -- O mouse ! ' -RRB-
20 The Mouse looked at her rather inquisitively , and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes , but it said nothing .
21 ` Perhaps it does n't understand English , ' thought Alice ; ' I daresay it 's a French XXXXX , come over with William the Conqueror . '	mouse		Everything|conclusion|foot|idea|life|mouse|pool|speed|tears|thing

1 Who ever heard of a Gordon bride doing such an unconventional thing ?
2 There , scamper off to the house before your guests come .
3 Laura has made your roses up into what she calls ' a dream of a bouquet , ' I 'll take Cousin Corona up more leisurely . ''
4 `` Oh , I knew that something beautiful was going to happen when the old rose-tree bloomed , '' murmured Miss Corona happily .
5 The Josephs ' Christmas The month before Christmas was always the most exciting and mysterious time in the Joseph household .
6 Such scheming and planning , such putting of curly heads together in corners , such counting of small hoards , such hiding and smuggling of things out of sight , as went on among the little Josephs !
7 There were a good many of them , and very few of the pennies ; hence the reason for so much contriving and consulting .
8 From fourteen-year-old Mollie down to four-year-old Lennie there were eight small Josephs in all in the little log house on the prairie ; so that when each little Joseph wanted to give a Christmas box to each of the other little Josephs , and something to Father and Mother Joseph besides , it is no wonder that they had to cudgel their small brains for ways and means thereof .
9 Father and Mother were always discreetly blind and silent through December .
10 No questions were asked no matter what queer things were done .
11 Many secret trips to the little store at the railway station two miles away were ignored , and no little Joseph was called to account because he or she looked terribly guilty when somebody suddenly came into the room .
12 The air was simply charged with secrets .
13 Sister Mollie was the grand repository of these ; all the little Josephs came to her for advice and assistance .
14 It was Mollie who for troubled small brothers and sisters did such sums in division as this : How can I get a ten-cent present for Emmy and a fifteen-cent one for Jimmy out of eighteen cents ?
15 Or , how can seven sticks of candy be divided among eight people so that each shall have one ?
16 It was Mollie who advised regarding the purchase of ribbon and crepe paper .
17 It was Mollie who put the finishing touches to most of the little gifts .
18 In short , all through December Mollie was weighed down under an avalanche of responsibility .
19 It speaks volumes for her sagacity and skill that she never got things mixed up or made any such terrible mistake as letting one little Joseph find out what another was going to give him .
20 `` Dead '' secrecy was the keystone of all plans and confidences .
21 During this particular XXXXX the planning and contriving had been more difficult and the results less satisfactory than usual .	December		Christmas|December|matter|planning|roses|secrecy|something|store|thing|touches

1 The daughter had her own way in everything , and whatever she did was right in her mother 's eyes ; but the poor step-daughter had a hard time .
2 Let her do what she would , she was always blamed , and got small thanks for all the trouble she took ; nothing was right , everything wrong ; and yet , if the truth were known , the girl was worth her weight in gold -- she was so unselfish and good-hearted .
3 But her step-mother did not like her , and the poor girl 's days were spent in weeping ; for it was impossible to live peacefully with the woman .
4 The wicked shrew was determined to get rid of the girl by fair means or foul , and kept saying to her father : ` Send her away , old man ; send her away -- anywhere so that my eyes sha 'n' t be plagued any longer by the sight of her , or my ears tormented by the sound of her voice .
5 Send her out into the fields , and let the cutting frost do for her . '
6 In vain did the poor old father weep and implore her pity ; she was firm , and he dared not gainsay her .
7 So he placed his daughter in a sledge , not even daring to give her a horse-cloth to keep herself warm with , and drove her out on to the bare , open fields , where he kissed her and left her , driving home as fast as he could , that he might not witness her miserable death .
8 Deserted by her father , the poor girl sat down under a fir-tree at the edge of the forest and began to weep silently .
9 Suddenly she heard a faint sound : it was King Frost springing from tree to tree , and cracking his fingers as he went .
10 At length he reached the fir-tree beneath which she was sitting , and with a crisp crackling sound he alighted beside her , and looked at her lovely face .
11 ` Well , maiden , ' he snapped out , ` do you know who I am ?
12 I am King Frost , king of the red-noses . '
13 ` All hail to you , great King ! '
14 answered the girl , in a gentle , trembling voice .
15 ` Have you come to take me ? '
16 ` Are you warm , maiden ? '
17 he replied .
18 ` Quite warm , King Frost , ' she answered , though she shivered as she spoke .
19 Then King Frost stooped down , and bent over the girl , and the crackling sound grew louder , and the air seemed to be full of knives and darts ; and again he asked : ` Maiden , are you warm ?
20 Are you warm , you beautiful girl ? '
21 And though her breath was almost frozen on her lips , she whispered gently , ` Quite warm , King XXXXX . '	Frost		Frost|daughter|face|father|hail|maiden|means|sight|truth|voice

1 They drank at the tanks and made the water all muddy , and then they fought over it , and then they would all rush together in mobs and shout : `` There is no one in the jungle so wise and good and clever and strong and gentle as the Bandar-log . ''
2 Then all would begin again till they grew tired of the city and went back to the tree-tops , hoping the Jungle-People would notice them .
3 Mowgli , who had been trained under the Law of the Jungle , did not like or understand this kind of life .
4 The monkeys dragged him into the Cold Lairs late in the afternoon , and instead of going to sleep , as Mowgli would have done after a long journey , they joined hands and danced about and sang their foolish songs .
5 One of the monkeys made a speech and told his companions that Mowgli 's capture marked a new thing in the history of the Bandar-log , for Mowgli was going to show them how to weave sticks and canes together as a protection against rain and cold .
6 Mowgli picked up some creepers and began to work them in and out , and the monkeys tried to imitate ; but in a very few minutes they lost interest and began to pull their friends ' tails or jump up and down on all fours , coughing .
7 `` I wish to eat , '' said Mowgli .
8 `` I am a stranger in this part of the jungle .
9 Bring me food , or give me leave to hunt here . ''
10 Twenty or thirty monkeys bounded away to bring him nuts and wild pawpaws .
11 But they fell to fighting on the road , and it was too much trouble to go back with what was left of the fruit .
12 Mowgli was sore and angry as well as hungry , and he roamed through the empty city giving the Strangers ' Hunting Call from time to time , but no one answered him , and Mowgli felt that he had reached a very bad place indeed .
13 `` All that Baloo has said about the Bandar-log is true , '' he thought to himself .
14 `` They have no Law , no Hunting Call , and no leaders -- nothing but foolish words and little picking thievish hands .
15 So if I am starved or killed here , it will be all my own fault .
16 But I must try to return to my own jungle .
17 Baloo will surely beat me , but that is better than chasing silly rose leaves with the Bandar-log . ''
18 No sooner had he walked to the city wall than the monkeys pulled him back , telling him that he did not know how happy he was , and pinching him to make him grateful .
19 He set his teeth and said nothing , but went with the shouting monkeys to a terrace above the red sandstone reservoirs that were half-full of rain water .
20 There was a ruined summer-house of white marble in the center of the terrace , built for queens dead a hundred years ago .
21 The domed roof had half fallen in and blocked up the underground passage from the palace by which the XXXXX used to enter .	queens		Law|fault|food|interest|jungle|mobs|nothing|queens|speech|years

1 ` You are a fine fellow ! '
2 said the Soldier , and put him on the Witch 's apron , took as much copper as his pockets could hold ; then he shut the chest , put the dog on it again , and went into the second room .
3 Sure enough there sat the dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels .
4 ` You had better not look at me so hard ! '
5 said the Soldier .
6 ` Your eyes will come out of their sockets ! '
7 And then he set the dog on the apron .
8 When he saw all the silver in the chest , he threw away the copper he had taken , and filled his pockets and knapsack with nothing but silver .
9 Then he went into the third room .
10 Horrors !
11 the dog there had two eyes , each as large as the Round Tower at Copenhagen , spinning round in his head like wheels .
12 ` Good evening ! '
13 said the Soldier and saluted , for he had never seen a dog like this before .
14 But when he had examined him more closely , he thought to himself : ` Now then , I 've had enough of this ! '
15 and put him down on the floor , and opened the chest .
16 Heavens !
17 what a heap of gold there was !
18 With all that he could buy up the whole town , and all the sugar pigs , all the tin soldiers , whips and rocking-horses in the whole world .
19 Now he threw away all the silver with which he had filled his pockets and knapsack , and filled them with gold instead -- yes , all his pockets , his knapsack , cap and boots even , so that he could hardly walk .
20 Now he was rich indeed .
21 He put the dog back upon the XXXXX , shut the door , and then called up through the tree : ` Now pull me up again , old Witch ! '	chest		Horrors|apron|boots|chest|eyes|floor|gold|room|silver|sockets

1 Kletke .
2 Once upon a time there was a Glass Mountain at the top of which stood a castle made of pure gold , and in front of the castle there grew an apple-tree on which there were golden apples .
3 Anyone who picked an apple gained admittance into the golden castle , and there in a silver room sat an enchanted Princess of surpassing fairness and beauty .
4 She was as rich too as she was beautiful , for the cellars of the castle were full of precious stones , and great chests of the finest gold stood round the walls of all the rooms .
5 Many knights had come from afar to try their luck , but it was in vain they attempted to climb the mountain .
6 In spite of having their horses shod with sharp nails , no one managed to get more than half-way up , and then they all fell back right down to the bottom of the steep slippery hill .
7 Sometimes they broke an arm , sometimes a leg , and many a brave man had broken his neck even .
8 The beautiful Princess sat at her window and watched the bold knights trying to reach her on their splendid horses .
9 The sight of her always gave men fresh courage , and they flocked from the four quarters of the globe to attempt the work of rescuing her .
10 But all in vain , and for seven years the Princess had sat now and waited for some one to scale the Glass Mountain .
11 A heap of corpses both of riders and horses lay round the mountain , and many dying men lay groaning there unable to go any farther with their wounded limbs .
12 The whole neighbourhood had the appearance of a vast churchyard .
13 In three more days the seven years would be at an end , when a knight in golden armour and mounted on a spirited steed was seen making his way towards the fatal hill .
14 Sticking his spurs into his horse he made a rush at the mountain , and got up half-way , then he calmly turned his horse 's head and came down again without a slip or stumble .
15 The following day he started in the same way ; the horse trod on the glass as if it had been level earth , and sparks of fire flew from its hoofs .
16 All the other knights gazed in astonishment , for he had almost gained the summit , and in another moment he would have reached the apple-tree ; but of a sudden a huge eagle rose up and spread its mighty wings , hitting as it did so the knight 's horse in the eye .
17 The beast shied , opened its wide nostrils and tossed its mane , then rearing high up in the air , its hind feet slipped and it fell with its rider down the steep mountain side .
18 Nothing was left of either of them except their bones , which rattled in the battered golden armour like dry peas in a pod .
19 And now there was only one more day before the close of the seven years .
20 Then there arrived on the scene a mere schoolboy -- a merry , happy-hearted youth , but at the same time strong and well-grown .
21 He saw how many XXXXX had broken their necks in vain , but undaunted he approached the steep mountain on foot and began the ascent .	knights		arm|beast|bottom|earth|knights|man|neighbourhood|slip|stones|youth

1 Having told the Prince all this , the Fairy went out in hopes of seeing the parrot , and soon returned with the bird in her hand .
2 She promptly shut it up in a cage , and , touching the Prince with her wand , transformed him into an exactly similar parrot ; after which , she instructed him how to reach the Princess .
3 The Prince reached the palace in safety , but was so dazzled at first by the Princess 's beauty , which far surpassed his expectations , that he was quite dumb for a time .
4 The Princess was surprised and anxious , and fearing the parrot , who was her greatest comfort , had fallen ill , she took him in her hand and caressed him .
5 This soon reassured the Prince , and encouraged him to play his part well , and he began to say a thousand agreeable things which charmed the Princess .
6 Presently the King appeared , and the parrot noticed with joy how much he was disliked .
7 As soon as the King left , the Princess retired to her dressing-room , the parrot flew after her and overheard her lamentations at the continued persecutions of the King , who had pressed her to consent to their marriage .
8 The parrot said so many clever and tender things to comfort her that she began to doubt whether this could indeed be her own parrot .
9 When he saw her well-disposed towards him , he exclaimed : ` Madam , I have a most important secret to confide to you , and I beg you not to be alarmed by what I am about to say .
10 I am here on behalf of the Queen your mother , with the object of delivering your Highness ; to prove which , behold this portrait which she gave me herself . '
11 So saying he drew forth the miniature from under his wing .
12 The Princess 's surprise was great , but after what she had seen and heard it was impossible not to indulge in hope , for she had recognised the likeness of herself which her mother always wore .
13 The parrot , finding she was not much alarmed , told her who he was , all that her mother had promised him and the help he had already received from a Fairy who had assured him that she would give him means to transport the Princess to her mother 's arms .
14 When he found her listening attentively to him , he implored the Princess to allow him to resume his natural shape .
15 She did not speak , so he drew a feather from his wing , and she beheld before her a Prince of such surpassing beauty that it was impossible not to hope that she might owe her liberty to so charming a person .
16 Meantime the Fairy had prepared a chariot , to which she harnessed two powerful eagles ; then placing the cage , with the parrot in it , she charged the bird to conduct it to the window of the Princess 's dressing-room .
17 This was done in a few minutes , and the Princess , stepping into the chariot with the Prince , was delighted to find her parrot again .
18 As they rose through the air the Princess remarked a figure mounted on an eagle 's back flying in front of the chariot .
19 She was rather alarmed , but the Prince reassured her , telling her it was the good Fairy to whom she owed so much , and who was now conducting her in safety to her mother .
20 That same morning the King woke suddenly from a troubled sleep .
21 He had dreamt that the Princess was being carried off from him , and , transforming himself into an XXXXX , he flew to the palace .	eagle		arms|cage|eagle|eagles|help|hopes|person|safety|wand|window

1 ` You must learn to do as you are told , ' was all the Frog would reply .
2 But poor Saphir was so unhappy , and begged so hard for forgiveness , that at last the Frog 's anger gave way , and she held up to him a tiny diamond stone .
3 ` Go back , ' she said , ` to the castle , and bury this little diamond close to the door .
4 But be careful not to return to the stable or to the bedroom ; they have proved too fatal to you .
5 Walk straight to the garden and enter through a portico , into a small green wood , in the midst of which is a tree with a trunk of gold and leaves of emeralds .
6 Perched on this tree you will see the beautiful bird you have been seeking so long .
7 You must cut the branch on which it is sitting , and bring it back to me without delay .
8 But I warn you solemnly that if you disobey my directions , as you have done twice before , you have nothing more to expect either of me or anyone else . '
9 With these words she jumped into the water , and the Prince , who had taken her threats much to heart , took his departure , firmly resolved not to deserve them .
10 He found it all just as he had been told : the portico , the wood , the magnificent tree , and the beautiful bird , which was sleeping soundly on one of the branches .
11 He speedily lopped off the branch , and though he noticed a splendid golden cage hanging close by , which would have been very useful for the bird to travel in , he left it alone , and came back to the fountain , holding his breath and walking on tip-toe all the way , for fear lest he should awake his prize .
12 But what was his surprise , when instead of finding the fountain in the spot where he had left it , he saw in its place a little rustic palace built in the best taste , and standing in the doorway a charming maiden , at whose sight his mind seemed to give way .
13 ` What !
14 Madam ! '
15 he cried , hardly knowing what he said .
16 ` What !
17 Is it you ? '
18 The maiden blushed and answered : ` Ah , my lord , it is long since I first beheld your face , but I did not think you had ever seen mine . '
19 ` Oh , madam , ' replied he , ` you can never guess the days and the hours I have passed lost in admiration of you . '
20 And after these words they each related all the strange things that had happened , and the more they talked the more they felt convinced of the truth of the images they had seen in their mirrors .
21 After some time spent in the most tender conversation , the Prince could not restrain himself from asking the lovely unknown by what lucky chance she was wandering in the forest ; where the fountain had gone ; and if she knew anything of the Frog to whom he owed all his happiness , and to whom he must give up the XXXXX , which , somehow or other , was still sound asleep .	bird		Madam|bedroom|bird|branch|breath|face|fear|forgiveness|place|surprise

1 The Fire-son was delighted , but the perpetual heat in which he lived made his body so hot , that it was dangerous to go too close to him .
2 One day the King gave a great feast , and asked his brother-in-law among the other guests .
3 The Fire-son did not appear till everyone had assembled , and when he did , everyone fled outside to the open air , so intense was the heat he gave forth .
4 Then the King was very angry and said , ` If I had known what a lot of trouble you would have been , I would never have taken you into my house . '
5 Then the Fire-son replied with a laugh , ` Do n't be angry , dear brother !
6 I love heat and my sister loves cold -- come here and let me embrace you , and then I 'll go home at once . '
7 And before the King had time to reply , the Fire-son seized him in a tight embrace .
8 The King screamed aloud in agony , and when his wife , the Snow-daughter , who had taken refuge from her brother in the next room , hurried to him , the King lay dead on the ground burnt to a cinder .
9 When the Snow-daughter saw this she turned on her brother and flew at him .
10 Then a fight began , the like of which had never been seen on earth .
11 When the people , attracted by the noise , hurried to the spot , they saw the Snow-daughter melting into water and the Fire-son burn to a cinder .
12 And so ended the unhappy brother and sister .
13 THE STORY OF KING FROST -LRB- 26 -RRB- -LRB- 26 -RRB- From the Russian .
14 There was once upon a time a peasant-woman who had a daughter and a step-daughter .
15 The daughter had her own way in everything , and whatever she did was right in her mother 's eyes ; but the poor step-daughter had a hard time .
16 Let her do what she would , she was always blamed , and got small thanks for all the trouble she took ; nothing was right , everything wrong ; and yet , if the truth were known , the girl was worth her weight in gold -- she was so unselfish and good-hearted .
17 But her step-mother did not like her , and the poor girl 's days were spent in weeping ; for it was impossible to live peacefully with the woman .
18 The wicked shrew was determined to get rid of the girl by fair means or foul , and kept saying to her father : ` Send her away , old man ; send her away -- anywhere so that my eyes sha 'n' t be plagued any longer by the sight of her , or my ears tormented by the sound of her voice .
19 Send her out into the fields , and let the cutting frost do for her . '
20 In vain did the poor old father weep and implore her pity ; she was firm , and he dared not gainsay her .
21 So he placed his daughter in a sledge , not even daring to give her a horse-cloth to keep herself warm with , and drove her out on to the bare , open XXXXX , where he kissed her and left her , driving home as fast as he could , that he might not witness her miserable death .	fields		air|ears|earth|everything|eyes|father|fields|noise|t|wife

1 He lay down once more on the grass and soon fell fast asleep .
2 All the next day he spent wandering about the fields , and toward evening the wolf came running to him in a great hurry and said , ' I have collected together all the wolves in the kingdom , and they are waiting for you in the wood .
3 Go quickly to the King , and tell him to go to the hill that he may see the wonder you have done with his own eyes .
4 Then return at once to me and get on my back , and I will help you to drive all the wolves together . '
5 Then Ferko went straight to the palace and told the King that he was ready to perform the third task if he would come to the hill and see it done .
6 Ferko himself returned to the fields , and mounting on the wolf 's back he rode to the wood close by .
7 Quick as lightning the wolf flew round the wood , and in a minute many hundred wolves rose up before him , increasing in number every moment , till they could be counted by thousands .
8 He drove them all before him on to the hill , where the King and his whole Court and Ferko 's two brothers were standing .
9 Only the lovely Princess was not present , for she was shut up in her tower weeping bitterly .
10 The wicked brothers stamped and foamed with rage when they saw the failure of their wicked designs .
11 But the King was overcome by a sudden terror when he saw the enormous pack of wolves approaching nearer and nearer , and calling out to Ferko he said , ` Enough , enough , we do n't want any more . '
12 But the wolf on whose back Ferko sat , said to its rider , ` Go on !
13 go on ! '
14 and at the same moment many more wolves ran up the hill , howling horribly and showing their white teeth .
15 The King in his terror called out , ` Stop a moment ; I will give you half my kingdom if you will drive all the wolves away . '
16 But Ferko pretended not to hear , and drove some more thousands before him , so that everyone quaked with horror and fear .
17 Then the King raised his voice again and called out , ` Stop !
18 you shall have my whole kingdom , if you will only drive these wolves back to the places they came from . '
19 But the wolf kept on encouraging Ferko , and said , ` Go on !
20 go on ! '
21 So he led the XXXXX on , till at last they fell on the King and on the wicked brothers , and ate them and the whole Court up in a moment .	wolves		eyes|grass|moment|palace|rider|terror|tower|wolves|wonder|wood

1 XI OLD MR. TOAD 'S QUEER TONGUE Old Mother Nature doth provide For all her children , large or small .
2 Her wisdom foresees all their needs And makes provision for them all .
3 If you do n't believe it , just you go ask Old Mr. Toad , as Peter Rabbit did , how such a slow-moving fellow as he is can catch enough bugs and insects to keep him alive .
4 Perhaps you 'll learn something just as Peter did .
5 Peter and Old Mr. Toad sat in the rain watching the tiny Toads , who , you know , were Mr. Toad 's children , leaving their kindergarten in the Smiling Pool and starting out to see the Great World .
6 When the last little Toad had passed them , Old Mr. Toad suddenly remembered that he was hungry , very hungry indeed .
7 `` Did n't have time to eat much while I was in the Smiling Pool , '' he explained .
8 `` Could n't eat and sing too , and while I was down there , I was supposed to sing .
9 Now that it is time to quit singing , I begin to realize that I 've got a stomach to look out for as well as a voice .
10 See that bug over there on that leaf ?
11 Watch him . ''
12 Peter looked , and sure enough there was a fat bug crawling along on an old leaf .
13 He was about two inches from Old Mr. Toad , and he was crawling very fast .
14 And right while Peter was looking at him he disappeared .
15 Peter turned to look at Old Mr. Toad .
16 He had n't budged .
17 He was sitting exactly where he had been sitting all the time , but he was smacking his lips , and there was a twinkle of satisfaction in his eyes .
18 Peter opened his eyes very wide .
19 `` Wha -- what -- '' he began .
20 `` Nice bug , '' interrupted Old Mr. Toad .
21 `` Nicest XXXXX I 've eaten for a longtime . ''	bug		Pool|bug|eyes|leaf|lips|needs|provision|something|time|wisdom

1 Long before the five miles were covered , Chester began to wonder if he would hold out to the end of them .
2 He had to stop and rest frequently , when those queer dizzy spells came on .
3 His feet seemed like lead .
4 But he kept doggedly on .
5 He would not give in now !
6 The white and yellow church was the most welcome sight that had ever met his eyes .
7 Over the hill he met a man and inquired the way to Mount Hope Farm .
8 Fortunately , it was nearby .
9 At the gate Chester had to stop again to recover from his dizziness .
10 He liked the look of the place , with its great , comfortable barns and quaint , roomy old farmhouse , all set down in a trim quadrangle of beeches and orchards .
11 There was an appearance of peace and prosperity about it .
12 If only Miss Salome Whitney will hire me !
13 thought Chester wistfully , as he crept up the slope .
14 I 'm afraid she 'll say I 'm too small .
15 Wisht I could stretch three inches all at once .
16 Wisht I was n't so dizzy .
17 Wisht -- What Chester 's third wish was will never be known , for just as he reached the kitchen door the worst dizzy spell of all came on .
18 Trees , barns , well-sweep , all whirled around him with the speed of wind .
19 He reeled and fell , a limp , helpless little body , on Miss Salome Whitney 's broad , spotless sandstone doorstep .
20 * * * * * In the Mount Hope kitchen Miss Salome was at that moment deep in discussion with her `` help '' over the weighty question of how the damsons were to be preserved .
21 XXXXX Salome wanted them boiled ; Clemantiny Bosworth , the help , insisted that they ought to be baked .	Miss		Miss|barns|body|church|doorstep|gate|miles|place|sight|spells

1 Why , your little feet would take an hour to go the distance an ordinary person could do in a minute ! '
2 But the Hazel-nut child replied , ` Nevertheless I mean to be a messenger !
3 Just send me a message and you 'll see that I shall be back in next to no time . '
4 So his mother said , ` Very well , go to your aunt in the neighbouring village , and fetch me a comb . '
5 The Hazel-nut child jumped quickly out of the egg-shell and ran out into the street .
6 Here he found a man on horseback who was just setting out for the neighbouring village .
7 He crept up the horse 's leg , sat down under the saddle , and then began to pinch the horse and to prick it with a pin .
8 The horse plunged and reared and then set off at a hard gallop , which it continued in spite of its rider 's efforts to stop it .
9 When they reached the village , the Hazel-nut child left off pricking the horse , and the poor tired creature pursued its way at a snail 's pace .
10 The Hazel-nut child took advantage of this , and crept down the horse 's leg ; then he ran to his aunt and asked her for a comb .
11 On the way home he met another rider , and did the return journey in exactly the same way .
12 When he handed his mother the comb that his aunt had given him , she was much amazed and asked him , ` But how did you manage to get back so quickly ? '
13 ` Ah !
14 mother , ' he replied , ` you see I was quite right when I said I knew a messenger was the profession for me . '
15 His father too possessed a horse which he often used to take out into the fields to graze .
16 One day he took the Hazel-nut child with him .
17 At midday the father turned to his small son and said , ` Stay here and look after the horse .
18 I must go home and give your mother a message , but I shall be back soon . '
19 When his father had gone , a robber passed by and saw the horse grazing without any one watching it , for of course he could not see the Hazel-nut child hidden in the grass .
20 So he mounted the horse and rode away .
21 But the Hazel-nut child , who was the most active little creature , climbed up the horse 's tail and began to bite it on the back , enraging the creature to such an extent that it paid no attention to the direction the XXXXX tried to make it go in , but galloped straight home .	robber		distance|feet|leg|message|messenger|person|pin|robber|son|time

1 `` Then watch me catch that fly over yonder , '' said Old Mr. Toad .
2 He hopped towards a fly which had lighted on a blade of grass just ahead .
3 About two inches from it he stopped , and so far as Peter could see , he sat perfectly still .
4 But the fly disappeared , and it was n't because it flew away , either .
5 Peter was sure of that .
6 As he told Mrs. Peter about it afterwards , `` It was there , and then it was n't , and that was all there was to it . ''
7 Old Mr. Toad chuckled .
8 `` Did n't you see that one go , Peter ? ''
9 he asked .
10 Peter shook his head .
11 `` I wish you Would stop fooling me , '' said Peter .
12 `` The joke is on me , but now you 've had your laugh at my expense , I wish you would tell me how you do it .
13 Please , Mr. Toad . ''
14 Now when Peter said please that way , of course Old Mr. Toad could n't resist him .
15 Nobody could .
16 `` Here comes an ant this way .
17 Now you watch my mouth instead of the ant and see what happens , '' said Old Mr. Toad .
18 Peter looked and saw a big black ant coming .
19 Then he kept his eyes on Old Mr. Toad 's mouth .
20 Suddenly there was a little flash of red from it , so tiny and so quick that Peter could n't be absolutely sure that he saw it .
21 But when he looked for the XXXXX , it was nowhere to be seen .	ant		Mr.|ant|course|expense|fly|go|head|laugh|mouth|way

1 He was too tired to keep awake all night , yet his anxiety prevented him from sleeping soundly , and when with the earliest dawn he looked up to the tree-top , he was glad to see his feathered companions still asleep with their heads under their wings .
2 He ate his breakfast , and waited until the birds should start , but they did not leave the place all day .
3 They hopped about from one tree to another looking for food , all day long until the evening , when they went back to their old perch to sleep .
4 The next day the same thing happened , but on the third morning one bird said to the other , ` To-day we must go to the spring to see the Witch-maiden wash her face . '
5 They remained on the tree till noon ; then they flew away and went towards the south .
6 The young man 's heart beat with anxiety lest he should lose sight of his guides , but he managed to keep the birds in view until they again perched upon a tree .
7 The young man ran after them until he was quite exhausted and out of breath , and after three short rests the birds at length reached a small open space in the forest , on the edge of which they placed themselves on the top of a high tree .
8 When the youth had overtaken them , he saw that there was a clear spring in the middle of the space .
9 He sat down at the foot of the tree upon which the birds were perched , and listened attentively to what they were saying to each other .
10 ` The sun is not down yet , ' said the first bird ; ` we must wait yet awhile till the moon rises and the maiden comes to the spring .
11 Do you think she will see that young man sitting under the tree ? '
12 ` Nothing is likely to escape her eyes , certainly not a young man , said the other bird .
13 ` Will the youth have the sense not to let himself be caught in her toils ? '
14 ` We will wait , ' said the first bird , ` and see how they get on together . '
15 The evening light had quite faded , and the full moon was already shining down upon the forest , when the young man heard a slight rustling sound .
16 After a few moments there came out of the forest a maiden , gliding over the grass so lightly that her feet seemed scarcely to touch the ground , and stood beside the spring .
17 The youth could not turn away his eyes from the maiden , for he had never in his life seen a woman so beautiful .
18 Without seeming to notice anything , she went to the spring , looked up to the full moon , then knelt down and bathed her face nine times , then looked up to the moon again and walked nine times round the well , and as she walked she sang this song : ` Full-faced moon with light unshaded , Let my beauty ne'er be faded .
19 Never let my cheek grow pale !
20 While the moon is waning nightly , May the maiden bloom more brightly , May her freshness never fail ! '
21 Then she dried her face with her long hair , and was about to go away , when her eye suddenly fell upon the spot where the young man was sitting , and she turned towards the XXXXX .	tree		To-day|bird|breath|cheek|dawn|freshness|heads|moments|south|tree

1 At this sight the Prince became more puzzled than ever , for he did not know how he was to warn Rosalie of his return .
2 Yet it broke his heart to see her weeping from dawn till dark .
3 One day , as Rosalie was walking up and down her room , she was surprised to see that the crystal which served for a wall had grown cloudy , as if some one had breathed on it , and , what was more , wherever she moved the brightness of the crystal always became clouded .
4 This was enough to cause the Princess to suspect that her lover had returned .
5 In order to set the Prince of the Air 's mind at rest she began by being very gracious to him , so that when she begged that her captivity might be a little lightened she should not be refused .
6 At first the only favour she asked was to be allowed to walk for one hour every day up and down the long gallery .
7 This was granted , and the Invisible Prince speedily took the opportunity of handing her the stone , which she at once slipped into her mouth .
8 No words can paint the fury of her captor at her disappearance .
9 He ordered the spirits of the air to fly through all space , and to bring back Rosalie wherever she might be .
10 They instantly flew off to obey his commands , and spread themselves over the whole earth .
11 Meantime Rosalie and the Invisible Prince had reached , hand in hand , a door of the gallery which led through a terrace into the gardens .
12 In silence they glided along , and thought themselves already safe , when a furious monster dashed itself by accident against Rosalie and the Invisible Prince , and in her fright she let go his hand .
13 No one can speak as long as he is invisible , and besides , they knew that the spirits were all around them , and at the slightest sound they would be recognised ; so all they could do was to feel about in the hope that their hands might once more meet .
14 But , alas !
15 the joy of liberty lasted but a short time .
16 The Princess , having wandered in vain up and down the forest , stopped at last on the edge of a fountain .
17 As she walked she wrote on the trees : ` If ever the Prince , my lover , comes this way , let him know that it is here I dwell , and that I sit daily on the edge of this fountain , mingling my tears with its waters . '
18 These words were read by one of the genii , who repeated them to his master .
19 The Prince of the Air , in his turn making himself invisible , was led to the fountain , and waited for Rosalie .
20 When she drew near he held out his hand , which she grasped eagerly , taking it for that of her lover ; and , seizing his opportunity , the Prince passed a cord round her arms , and throwing off his invisibility cried to his spirits to drag her into the lowest pit .
21 It was at this moment that the Invisible Prince appeared , and at the XXXXX of the Prince of the Genii mounting into the air , holding a silken cord , he guessed instantly that he was carrying off Rosalie .	sight		commands|disappearance|genii|hands|lover|order|sight|spirits|way|words

1 The young man ran after them until he was quite exhausted and out of breath , and after three short rests the birds at length reached a small open space in the forest , on the edge of which they placed themselves on the top of a high tree .
2 When the youth had overtaken them , he saw that there was a clear spring in the middle of the space .
3 He sat down at the foot of the tree upon which the birds were perched , and listened attentively to what they were saying to each other .
4 ` The sun is not down yet , ' said the first bird ; ` we must wait yet awhile till the moon rises and the maiden comes to the spring .
5 Do you think she will see that young man sitting under the tree ? '
6 ` Nothing is likely to escape her eyes , certainly not a young man , said the other bird .
7 ` Will the youth have the sense not to let himself be caught in her toils ? '
8 ` We will wait , ' said the first bird , ` and see how they get on together . '
9 The evening light had quite faded , and the full moon was already shining down upon the forest , when the young man heard a slight rustling sound .
10 After a few moments there came out of the forest a maiden , gliding over the grass so lightly that her feet seemed scarcely to touch the ground , and stood beside the spring .
11 The youth could not turn away his eyes from the maiden , for he had never in his life seen a woman so beautiful .
12 Without seeming to notice anything , she went to the spring , looked up to the full moon , then knelt down and bathed her face nine times , then looked up to the moon again and walked nine times round the well , and as she walked she sang this song : ` Full-faced moon with light unshaded , Let my beauty ne'er be faded .
13 Never let my cheek grow pale !
14 While the moon is waning nightly , May the maiden bloom more brightly , May her freshness never fail ! '
15 Then she dried her face with her long hair , and was about to go away , when her eye suddenly fell upon the spot where the young man was sitting , and she turned towards the tree .
16 The youth rose and stood waiting .
17 Then the maiden said , ` You ought to have a heavy punishment because you have presumed to watch my secret doings in the moonlight .
18 But I will forgive you this time , because you are a stranger and knew no better .
19 But you must tell me truly who you are and how you came to this place , where no mortal has ever set foot before . '
20 The youth answered humbly : ` Forgive me , beautiful maiden , if I have unintentionally offended you .
21 I chanced to come here after long wandering , and found a good place to sleep under this XXXXX .	tree		beauty|birds|forest|hair|maiden|middle|sense|spot|spring|tree

1 He wrapped her up in his cloak , placed her before him on his horse , and brought her to his castle .
2 There he had her dressed in rich clothes , and her beauty shone out as bright as day , but not a word could be drawn from her .
3 He set her at table by his side , and her modest ways and behaviour pleased him so much that he said , ' I will marry this maiden and none other in the world , ' and after some days he married her .
4 But the King had a wicked mother who was displeased with the marriage , and said wicked things of the young Queen .
5 ` Who knows who this girl is ? '
6 she said ; ` she can not speak , and is not worthy of a king . '
7 After a year , when the Queen had her first child , the old mother took it away from her .
8 Then she went to the King and said that the Queen had killed it .
9 The King would not believe it , and would not allow any harm to be done her .
10 But she sat quietly sewing at the shirts and troubling herself about nothing .
11 The next time she had a child the wicked mother did the same thing , but the King could not make up his mind to believe her .
12 He said , ` She is too sweet and good to do such a thing as that .
13 If she were not dumb and could defend herself , her innocence would be proved . '
14 But when the third child was taken away , and the Queen was again accused , and could not utter a word in her own defence , the King was obliged to give her over to the law , which decreed that she must be burnt to death .
15 When the day came on which the sentence was to be executed , it was the last day of the six years in which she must not speak or laugh , and now she had freed her dear brothers from the power of the enchantment .
16 The six shirts were done ; there was only the left sleeve wanting to the last .
17 When she was led to the stake , she laid the shirts on her arm , and as she stood on the pile and the fire was about to be lighted , she looked around her and saw six swans flying through the air .
18 Then she knew that her release was at hand and her heart danced for joy .
19 The swans fluttered round her , and hovered low so that she could throw the shirts over them .
20 When they had touched them the swan-skins fell off , and her brothers stood before her living , well and beautiful .
21 Only the youngest had a swan 's wing instead of his left XXXXX .	arm		air|arm|behaviour|clothes|death|enchantment|living|pile|time|word

1 So he kept watch half the night ; but a little after midnight he was overcome by an irresistible drowsiness , and fell fast asleep .
2 He did not awake till it was bright daylight , and all the fruit on the trees had vanished .
3 The following year Warza , the second brother , tried his luck , but with the same result .
4 Then it came to the turn of the third and youngest son .
5 Iwanich was not the least discouraged by the failure of his elder brothers , though they were both much older and stronger than he was , and when night came climbed up the tree as they had done , The moon had risen , and with her soft light lit up the whole neighbourhood , so that the observant Prince could distinguish the smallest object distinctly .
6 At midnight a gentle west wind shook the tree , and at the same moment a snow-white swan-like bird sank down gently on his breast .
7 The Prince hastily seized the bird 's wings in his hands , when , lo !
8 to his astonishment he found he was holding in his arms not a bird but the most beautiful girl he had ever seen .
9 ` You need not fear Militza , ' said the beautiful girl , looking at the Prince with friendly eyes .
10 ` An evil magician has not robbed you of your fruit , but he stole the seed from my mother , and thereby caused her death .
11 When she was dying she bade me take the fruit , which you have no right to possess , from the trees every year as soon as it was ripe .
12 This I would have done to-night too , if you had not seized me with such force , and so broken the spell I was under . '
13 Iwanich , who had been prepared to meet a terrible magician and not a lovely girl , fell desperately in love with her .
14 They spent the rest of the night in pleasant conversation , and when Militza wished to go away he begged her not to leave him . '
15 I would gladly stay with you longer , ' said Militza , ` but a wicked witch once cut off a lock of my hair when I was asleep , which has put me in her power , and if morning were still to find me here she would do me some harm , and you , too , perhaps . '
16 Having said these words , she drew a sparkling diamond ring from her finger , which she handed to the Prince , saying : ` Keep this ring in memory of Militza , and think of her sometimes if you never see her again .
17 But if your love is really true , come and find me in my own kingdom .
18 I may not show you the way there , but this ring will guide you .
19 ` If you have love and courage enough to undertake this journey , whenever you come to a cross-road always look at this diamond before you settle which way you are going to take .
20 If it sparkles as brightly as ever go straight on , but if its lustre is dimmed choose another path . '
21 Then Militza bent over the Prince and kissed him on his forehead , and before he had time to say a word she vanished through the branches of the XXXXX in a little white cloud .	tree		arms|astonishment|courage|diamond|force|girl|hands|object|path|tree

1 Jerry Muskrat swam back and forth , making little silver lines on the surface of the Smiling Pool and squeaking contentedly , for it was the hour which he loves best .
2 Little Friend the Song Sparrow had tucked his head under his wing and gone to sleep among the alders along the Laughing Brook and Redwing the Blackbird had done the same thing among the bulrushes .
3 All the feathered songsters who had made joyous the bright day had gone to bed .
4 But this did not mean that the glad spring chorus was silent .
5 Oh , my , no !
6 No indeed !
7 The Green Meadows were silent , and the Green Forest was silent , but as if to make up for this , the sweet singers of the Smiling Pool , the hylas and the frogs and Old Mr. Toad , were pouring out their gladness as if they had not been singing most of the departed day .
8 You see it was the hour they love best of all , the hour which seems to them just made for singing , and they were doing their best to tell Old Mother Nature how they love her , and how glad they were that she had brought back sweet Mistress Spring to waken them from their long sleep .
9 It was so peaceful and beautiful there that it did n't seem possible that danger of any kind could be lurking near .
10 But Old Mr. Toad , swelling out that queer music bag in his throat and singing with all his might , never once forgot that wise saying of his , and so he was the first to see what looked like nothing so much as a little detached bit of the blackness of the Green Forest floating out towards the Smiling Pool .
11 Instantly he stopped singing .
12 Now that was a signal .
13 When he stopped singing , his nearest neighbor stopped singing , then the next one and the next , and in a minute there was n't a sound from the Smiling Pool save the squeak of Jerry Muskrat hidden among the bulrushes .
14 That great chorus stopped as abruptly as the electric lights go out when you press a button .
15 Back and forth over the Smiling Pool , this way and that way , floated the shadow , but there was no sign of any living thing in the Smiling Pool .
16 After awhile the shadow floated away over the Green Meadows without a sound .
17 `` Hooty the Owl did n't get one of us that time , '' said Old Mr. Toad to his nearest neighbor with a chuckle of satisfaction .
18 Then he swelled out his music bag and began to sing again .
19 And at once , as abruptly as it had stopped , the great chorus began again as joyous as before , for nothing had happened to bring sadness as might have but for the watchfulness of Old Mr. Toad .
20 VIII OLD MR. TOAD 'S BABIES The Smiling Pool 's a nursery Where all the sunny day A thousand funny babies Are taught while at their play .
21 Really the Smiling XXXXX is a sort of kindergarten , one of the most interesting kindergartens in the world .	Pool		Friend|Pool|chorus|gladness|head|hour|nothing|sound|way|wing

1 The Prince reached the palace in safety , but was so dazzled at first by the Princess 's beauty , which far surpassed his expectations , that he was quite dumb for a time .
2 The Princess was surprised and anxious , and fearing the parrot , who was her greatest comfort , had fallen ill , she took him in her hand and caressed him .
3 This soon reassured the Prince , and encouraged him to play his part well , and he began to say a thousand agreeable things which charmed the Princess .
4 Presently the King appeared , and the parrot noticed with joy how much he was disliked .
5 As soon as the King left , the Princess retired to her dressing-room , the parrot flew after her and overheard her lamentations at the continued persecutions of the King , who had pressed her to consent to their marriage .
6 The parrot said so many clever and tender things to comfort her that she began to doubt whether this could indeed be her own parrot .
7 When he saw her well-disposed towards him , he exclaimed : ` Madam , I have a most important secret to confide to you , and I beg you not to be alarmed by what I am about to say .
8 I am here on behalf of the Queen your mother , with the object of delivering your Highness ; to prove which , behold this portrait which she gave me herself . '
9 So saying he drew forth the miniature from under his wing .
10 The Princess 's surprise was great , but after what she had seen and heard it was impossible not to indulge in hope , for she had recognised the likeness of herself which her mother always wore .
11 The parrot , finding she was not much alarmed , told her who he was , all that her mother had promised him and the help he had already received from a Fairy who had assured him that she would give him means to transport the Princess to her mother 's arms .
12 When he found her listening attentively to him , he implored the Princess to allow him to resume his natural shape .
13 She did not speak , so he drew a feather from his wing , and she beheld before her a Prince of such surpassing beauty that it was impossible not to hope that she might owe her liberty to so charming a person .
14 Meantime the Fairy had prepared a chariot , to which she harnessed two powerful eagles ; then placing the cage , with the parrot in it , she charged the bird to conduct it to the window of the Princess 's dressing-room .
15 This was done in a few minutes , and the Princess , stepping into the chariot with the Prince , was delighted to find her parrot again .
16 As they rose through the air the Princess remarked a figure mounted on an eagle 's back flying in front of the chariot .
17 She was rather alarmed , but the Prince reassured her , telling her it was the good Fairy to whom she owed so much , and who was now conducting her in safety to her mother .
18 That same morning the King woke suddenly from a troubled sleep .
19 He had dreamt that the Princess was being carried off from him , and , transforming himself into an eagle , he flew to the palace .
20 When he failed to find her he flew into a terrible rage , and hastened home to consult his books , by which means he discovered that it was his son who had deprived him of this precious treasure .
21 Immediately he took the shape of a harpy , and , filled with rage , was determined to devour his XXXXX , and even the Princess too , if only he could overtake them .	son		cage|eagles|help|parrot|rage|safety|son|surprise|things|wing

1 A short time after this , when he was going early one morning to the usual grazing place with his horses , he noticed a flock of birds assembled together making a great noise and flying wildly backwards and forwards .
2 Full of curiosity , Iwanich hurried up to the spot , and saw that a large number of ravens had attacked an eagle , and although the eagle was big and powerful and was making a brave fight , it was overpowered at last by numbers , and had to give in .
3 But the Prince , who was sorry for the poor bird , seized the branch of a tree and hit out at the ravens with it ; terrified at this unexpected onslaught they flew away , leaving many of their number dead or wounded on the battlefield .
4 As soon as the eagle saw itself free from its tormentors it plucked a feather from its wing , and , handing it to the Prince , said : ` Here , my kind benefactor , take this feather as a proof of my gratitude ; should you ever be in need of my help blow this feather into the air , and I will help you as much as is in my power . '
5 Iwanich thanked the bird , and placing the feather beside the scale he drove the horses home .
6 Another day he had wandered farther than usual , and came close to a farmyard ; the place pleased the Prince , and as there was plenty of good grass for the horses he determined to spend the day there .
7 Just as he was sitting down under a tree he heard a cry close to him , and saw a fox which had been caught in a trap placed there by the farmer .
8 In vain did the poor beast try to free itself ; then the good-natured Prince came once more to the rescue , and let the fox out of the trap .
9 The fox thanked him heartily , tore two hairs out of his bushy tail , and said : ` Should you ever stand in need of my help throw these two hairs into the fire , and in a moment I shall be at your side ready to obey you . '
10 Iwanich put the fox 's hairs with the scale and the feather , and as it was getting dark he hastened home with his horses .
11 In the meantime his service was drawing near to an end , and in three more days the year was up , and he would be able to get his reward and leave the witch .
12 On the first evening of these last three days , when he came home and was eating his supper , he noticed the old woman stealing into the stables .
13 The Prince followed her secretly to see what she was going to do .
14 He crouched down in the doorway and heard the wicked witch telling the horses to wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep , and then to go and hide themselves in the river , and to stay there till she told them to return ; and if they did n't do as she told them the old woman threatened to beat them till they bled .
15 When Iwanich heard all this he went back to his room , determined that nothing should induce him to fall asleep next day .
16 On the following morning he led the mare and foal to the fields as usual , but bound a cord round them both which he kept in his hand .
17 But after a few hours , by the magic arts of the old witch , he was overpowered by sleep , and the mare and foal escaped and did as they had been told to do .
18 The Prince did not awake till late in the evening ; and when he did , he found , to his horror , that the horses had disappeared .
19 Filled with despair , he cursed the moment when he had entered the service of the cruel witch , and already he saw his head sticking up on the sharp spike beside the others .
20 Then he suddenly remembered the fish 's scale , which , with the eagle 's feather and the fox 's hairs , he always carried about with him .
21 He drew the scale from his pocket , and hurrying to the XXXXX he threw it in .	river		beast|hairs|home|horror|numbers|river|scale|side|sleep|supper

1 She added some gentle reproaches to her tale , but before she had got far he was wide awake , and transported with joy threw himself at the Princess 's feet .
2 At the same moment the walls of the room expanded and opened out , revealing a golden throne covered with jewels .
3 A magnificent Court now began to assemble , and at the same time several elegant carriages filled with ladies in magnificent dresses drove up .
4 In the first and most splendid of these carriages sat Prince Rainbow 's mother .
5 She fondly embraced her son , after which she informed him that his father had been dead for some years , that the anger of the Fairies was at length appeased , and that he might return in peace to reign over his people , who were longing for his presence .
6 The Court received the new King with joyful acclamations which would have delighted him at any other time , but all his thoughts were full of Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
7 He was just about to present her to his mother and the Court , feeling sure that her charms would win all hearts , when the three green and white sisters appeared .
8 They declared the secret of Fairy-than-a-Fairy 's royal birth , and the Queen taking the two lovers in her carriage set off with them for the capital of the kingdom .
9 Here they were received with tumultuous joy .
10 The wedding was celebrated without delay , and succeeding years diminished neither the virtues , beauty , nor the mutual affection of King Rainbow and his Queen , Fairer-than-a-Fairy .
11 THE THREE BROTHERS -LRB- 17 -RRB- -LRB- 17 -RRB- From the Polish .
12 Kletke .
13 There was once upon a time a witch , who in the shape of a hawk used every night to break the windows of a certain village church .
14 In the same village there lived three brothers , who were all determined to kill the mischievous hawk .
15 But in vain did the two eldest mount guard in the church with their guns ; as soon as the bird appeared high above their heads , sleep overpowered them , and they only awoke to hear the windows crashing in .
16 Then the youngest brother took his turn of guarding the windows , and to prevent his being overcome by sleep he placed a lot of thorns under his chin , so that if he felt drowsy and nodded his head , they would prick him and keep him awake .
17 The moon was already risen , and it was as light as day , when suddenly he heard a fearful noise , and at the same time a terrible desire to sleep overpowered him .
18 His eyelids closed , and his head sank on his shoulders , but the thorns ran into him and were so painful that he awoke at once .
19 He saw the hawk swooping down upon the church , and in a moment he had seized his gun and shot at the bird .
20 The hawk fell heavily under a big stone , severely wounded in its right wing .
21 The youth ran to look at it , and saw that a huge abyss had opened below the XXXXX .	stone		carriage|carriages|lovers|moment|reproaches|secret|son|stone|tale|walls

1 An elegant polished walnut-shell served Thumbelina as a cradle , the blue petals of a violet were her mattress , and a rose-leaf her coverlid .
2 There she lay at night , but in the day-time she used to play about on the table ; here the woman had put a bowl , surrounded by a ring of flowers , with their stalks in water , in the middle of which floated a great tulip pedal , and on this Thumbelina sat , and sailed from one side of the bowl to the other , rowing herself with two white horse-hairs for oars .
3 It was such a pretty sight !
4 She could sing , too , with a voice more soft and sweet than had ever been heard before .
5 One night , when she was lying in her pretty little bed , an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window .
6 She was very ugly , clumsy , and clammy ; she hopped on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose-leaf .
7 ` This would make a beautiful wife for my son , ' said the toad , taking up the walnut-shell , with Thumbelina inside , and hopping with it through the window into the garden .
8 There flowed a great wide stream , with slippery and marshy banks ; here the toad lived with her son .
9 Ugh !
10 how ugly and clammy he was , just like his mother !
11 ` Croak , croak , croak ! '
12 was all he could say when he saw the pretty little girl in the walnut-shell .
13 ` Do n't talk so load , or you 'll wake her , ' said the old toad .
14 ` She might escape us even now ; she is as light as a feather .
15 We will put her at once on a broad water-lily leaf in the stream .
16 That will be quite an island for her ; she is so small and light .
17 She ca n't run away from us there , whilst we are preparing the guest-chamber under the marsh where she shall live . '
18 Outside in the brook grew many water-lilies , with broad green leaves , which looked as if they were swimming about on the water .
19 The leaf farthest away was the largest , and to this the old toad swam with Thumbelina in her walnut-shell .
20 The tiny Thumbelina woke up very early in the morning , and when she saw where she was she began to cry bitterly ; for on every side of the great green leaf was water , and she could not get to the land .
21 The old toad was down under the XXXXX , decorating her room with rushes and yellow marigold leaves , to make it very grand for her new daughter-in-law ; then she swam out with her ugly son to the leaf where Thumbelina lay .	marsh		Croak|girl|island|land|leaves|light|marsh|side|stream|window

1 And she disappeared into her hut , but returned very soon and said , ` You are a mighty Prince , but at the same time you have a kind heart , which deserves to be rewarded .
2 Would you like to have the most beautiful woman in the world for your wife ? '
3 ` Most certainly I would , ' replied the Prince .
4 So the old woman continued , ` The most beautiful woman in the whole world is the daughter of the Queen of the Flowers , who has been captured by a dragon .
5 If you wish to marry her , you must first set her free , and this I will help you to do .
6 I will give you this little bell : if you ring it once , the King of the Eagles will appear ; if you ring it twice , the King of the Foxes will come to you ; and if you ring it three times , you will see the King of the Fishes by your side .
7 These will help you if you are in any difficulty .
8 Now farewell , and heaven prosper your undertaking . '
9 She handed him the little bell , and there disappeared hut and all , as though the earth had swallowed her up .
10 Then it dawned on the Prince that he had been speaking to a good fairy , and putting the little bell carefully in his pocket , he rode home and told his father that he meant to set the daughter of the Flower Queen free , and intended setting out on the following day into the wide world in search of the maid .
11 So the next morning the Prince mounted his fine horse and left his home .
12 He had roamed round the world for a whole year , and his horse had died of exhaustion , while he himself had suffered much from want and misery , but still he had come on no trace of her he was in search of .
13 At last one day he came to a hut , in front of which sat a very old man .
14 The Prince asked him , ` Do you not know where the Dragon lives who keeps the daughter of the Flower Queen prisoner ? '
15 ` No , I do not , ' answered the old man .
16 ` But if you go straight along this road for a year , you will reach a hut where my father lives , and possibly he may be able to tell you . '
17 The Prince thanked him for his information , and continued his journey for a whole year along the same road , and at the end of it came to the little hut , where he found a very old man .
18 He asked him the same question , and the old man answered , ` No , I do not know where the Dragon lives .
19 But go straight along this road for another year , and you will come to a hut in which my father lives .
20 I know he can tell you . '
21 And so the Prince wandered on for another year , always on the same road , and at last reached the XXXXX where he found the third old man .	hut		difficulty|exhaustion|heaven|home|hut|journey|man|misery|morning|road

1 ` That 's a nice sort of fellow ! '
2 he suddenly exclaimed .
3 ` He 's lying on the ground , snoring hard ! '
4 At this the marksman seized his gun , took aim , and fired in the direction of the world 's end , in order to awaken the sluggard .
5 And a moment later the swift runner reappeared , and , stepping on board the ship , handed the healing water to the Simpleton .
6 So while the King was still sitting at table finishing his dinner news was brought to him that his orders had been obeyed to the letter .
7 What was to be done now ?
8 The King determined to think of a still more impossible task .
9 So he told another courtier to go to the Simpleton with the command that he and his comrades were instantly to eat up twelve oxen and twelve tons of bread .
10 Once more the sharp-eared comrade overheard the King 's words while he was still talking to the courtier , and reported them to the Simpleton .
11 ` Alas , alas ! '
12 he sighed ; ` what in the world shall I do ?
13 Why , it would take us a year , possibly our whole lives , to eat up twelve oxen and twelve tons of bread . '
14 ` Never fear , ' said the glutton .
15 ` It will scarcely be enough for me , I 'm so hungry . '
16 So when the courtier arrived with the royal message he was told to take back word to the King that his orders should be obeyed .
17 Then twelve roasted oxen and twelve tons of bread were brought alongside of the ship , and at one sitting the glutton had devoured it all . '
18 I call that a small meal , ' he said . '
19 I wish they 'd brought me some more . '
20 Next , the King ordered that forty casks of wine , containing forty gallons each , were to be drunk up on the spot by the Simpleton and his party .
21 When these XXXXX were overheard by the sharp-eared comrade and repeated to the Simpleton , he was in despair .	words		comrade|comrades|direction|message|oxen|ship|table|task|word|words

1 Little Toomai lay back and slept all through the long afternoon and into the twilight , and while he slept Petersen Sahib and Machua Appa followed the track of the two elephants for fifteen miles across the hills .
2 Petersen Sahib had spent eighteen years in catching elephants , and he had only once before found such a dance-place .
3 Machua Appa had no need to look twice at the clearing to see what had been done there , or to scratch with his toe in the packed , rammed earth .
4 `` The child speaks truth , '' said he .
5 `` All this was done last night , and I have counted seventy tracks crossing the river .
6 See , Sahib , where Pudmini 's leg-iron cut the bark of that tree !
7 Yes ; she was there too . ''
8 They looked at one another and up and down , and they wondered .
9 For the ways of elephants are beyond the wit of any man , black or white , to fathom .
10 `` Forty years and five , '' said Machua Appa , `` have I followed my lord , the elephant , but never have I heard that any child of man had seen what this child has seen .
11 By all the Gods of the Hills , it is -- what can we say ? ''
12 and he shook his head .
13 When they got back to camp it was time for the evening meal .
14 Petersen Sahib ate alone in his tent , but he gave orders that the camp should have two sheep and some fowls , as well as a double ration of flour and rice and salt , for he knew that there would be a feast .
15 Big Toomai had come up hotfoot from the camp in the plains to search for his son and his elephant , and now that he had found them he looked at them as though he were afraid of them both .
16 And there was a feast by the blazing campfires in front of the lines of picketed elephants , and Little Toomai was the hero of it all .
17 And the big brown elephant catchers , the trackers and drivers and ropers , and the men who know all the secrets of breaking the wildest elephants , passed him from one to the other , and they marked his forehead with blood from the breast of a newly killed jungle-cock , to show that he was a forester , initiated and free of all the jungles .
18 And at last , when the flames died down , and the red light of the logs made the elephants look as though they had been dipped in blood too , Machua Appa , the head of all the drivers of all the Keddahs -- Machua Appa , Petersen Sahib 's other self , who had never seen a made road in forty years : Machua Appa , who was so great that he had no other name than Machua Appa , -- leaped to his feet , with Little Toomai held high in the air above his head , and shouted : `` Listen , my brothers .
19 Listen , too , you my lords in the lines there , for I , Machua Appa , am speaking !
20 This little one shall no more be called Little Toomai , but Toomai of the Elephants , as his great-grandfather was called before him .
21 What never man has seen he has seen through the long night , and the favor of the elephant-folk and of the XXXXX of the Jungles is with him .	Gods		Gods|cut|great-grandfather|light|lines|miles|plains|son|time|toe

1 `` I do n't know you and you do n't know me .
2 That is why I want to tell you about it .
3 I must tell somebody , and if I told anybody I knew , they 'd tell it all over Halifax .
4 It is dreadful to be talking to you like this .
5 Beatrix would have three fits , one after the other , if she saw me .
6 But Beatrix is a slave to conventionality .
7 I glory in discarding it at times .
8 You do n't mind , do you ? ''
9 `` Not at all , '' said the Young Man sincerely .
10 The Girl sighed .
11 `` I have reached that point where I must have a confidant , or go crazy .
12 Once I could tell things to Beatrix .
13 That was before she got engaged .
14 Now she tells everything to him .
15 There is no earthly way of preventing her .
16 I 've tried them all .
17 So , nowadays , when I get into trouble , I tell it out loud to myself in the glass .
18 It 's a relief , you know .
19 But that is no good now .
20 I want to tell it to somebody who can say things back .
21 Will you promise to say XXXXX back ? ''	things		Girl|everything|glass|glory|point|relief|somebody|things|times|trouble

1 said the King ; but the largest dog seized him too , and the Queen as well , and threw them up after the others .
2 This frightened the soldiers , and all the people cried : ` Good Soldier , you shall be our King , and marry the beautiful Princess ! '
3 Then they put the Soldier into the King 's coach , and the three dogs danced in front , crying ` Hurrah ! '
4 And the boys whistled and the soldiers presented arms .
5 The Princess came out of the copper castle , and became Queen ; and that pleased her very much .
6 The wedding festivities lasted for eight days , and the dogs sat at table and made eyes at everyone .
7 THE WITCH IN THE STONE BOAT -LRB- 31 -RRB- -LRB- 31 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
8 There were once a King and a Queen , and they had a son called Sigurd , who was very strong and active , and good-looking .
9 When the King came to be bowed down with the weight of years he spoke to his son , and said that now it was time for him to look out for a fitting match for himself , for he did not know how long he might last now , and he would like to see him married before he died .
10 Sigurd was not averse to this , and asked his father where he thought it best to look for a wife .
11 The King answered that in a certain country there was a King who had a beautiful daughter , and he thought it would be most desirable if Sigurd could get her .
12 So the two parted , and Sigurd prepared for the journey , and went to where his father had directed him .
13 He came to the King and asked his daughter 's hand , which he readily granted him , but only on the condition that he should remain there as long as he could , for the King himself was not strong and not very able to govern his kingdom .
14 Sigurd accepted this condition , but added that he would have to get leave to go home again to his own country when he heard news of his father 's death .
15 After that Sigurd married the Princess , and helped his father-in-law to govern the kingdom .
16 He and the Princess loved each other dearly , and after a year a son came to them , who was two years old when word came to Sigurd that his father was dead .
17 Sigurd now prepared to return home with his wife and child , and went on board ship to go by sea .
18 They had sailed for several days , when the breeze suddenly fell , and there came a dead calm , at a time when they needed only one day 's voyage to reach home .
19 Sigurd and his Queen were one day on deck , when most of the others on the ship had fallen asleep .
20 There they sat and talked for a while , and had their little son along with them .
21 After a time Sigurd became so heavy with sleep that he could no longer keep awake , so he went below and lay down , leaving the Queen alone on the deck , playing with her XXXXX .	son		WITCH|calm|child|daughter|dog|father|news|others|son|wife

1 said the Soldier .
2 ` But what am I to give you , old Witch ; for surely you are not going to do this for nothing ? '
3 ` Yes , I am ! '
4 replied the Witch .
5 ` Not a single farthing will I take !
6 For me you shall bring nothing but an old tinder-box which my grandmother forgot last time she was down there . '
7 ` Well , tie the rope round my waist !
8 ` said the Soldier .
9 ` Here it is , ' said the Witch , ` and here is my blue-check apron . '
10 Then the Soldier climbed up the tree , let himself down through the hole , and found himself standing , as the Witch had said , underground in the large hall , where the three hundred lamps were burning .
11 Well , he opened the first door .
12 Ugh !
13 there sat the dog with eyes as big as saucers glaring at him .
14 ` You are a fine fellow ! '
15 said the Soldier , and put him on the Witch 's apron , took as much copper as his pockets could hold ; then he shut the chest , put the dog on it again , and went into the second room .
16 Sure enough there sat the dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels .
17 ` You had better not look at me so hard ! '
18 said the Soldier .
19 ` Your eyes will come out of their sockets ! '
20 And then he set the dog on the apron .
21 When he saw all the silver in the XXXXX , he threw away the copper he had taken , and filled his pockets and knapsack with nothing but silver .	chest		apron|chest|door|eyes|grandmother|hall|nothing|room|time|tree

1 `` She has invited me often enough . ''
2 Ned whistled .
3 `` Jolly time you 'll have of it , Sis .
4 Windy Meadows is about as festive as a funeral .
5 And Aunt Eleanor is n't lively , to put it in the mildest possible way . ''
6 `` I do n't care if she is n't .
7 I want to get somewhere where people wo n't look at me and talk about -- that , '' said Frances , looking ready to cry .
8 Ned went out and swore at Holcomb again , and then advised his mother to humour Frances .
9 Accordingly , Frances went to Windy Meadows .
10 Windy Meadows was , as Ned had said , the reverse of lively .
11 It was a pretty country place , with a sort of fag-end by way of a little fishing village , huddled on a wind-swept bit of beach , locally known as the `` Cove . ''
12 Aunt Eleanor was one of those delightful people , so few and far between in this world , who have perfectly mastered the art of minding their own business exclusively .
13 She left Frances in peace .
14 She knew that her niece had had `` some love trouble or other , '' and had n't gotten over it rightly .
15 `` It 's always best to let those things take their course , '' said this philosophical lady to her `` help '' and confidant , Margaret Ann Peabody .
16 `` She 'll get over it in time -- though she does n't think so now , bless you . ''
17 For the first fortnight Frances revelled in a luxury of unhindered sorrow .
18 She could cry all night -- and all day too , if she wished -- without having to stop because people might notice that her eyes were red .
19 She could mope in her room all she liked .
20 And there were no men who demanded civility .
21 When the fortnight was over , XXXXX Eleanor took crafty counsel with herself .	Aunt		Aunt|Sis|business|confidant|help|lady|men|people|room|sorrow

1 `` Take him away , '' he said to Father Wolf , `` and train him as befits one of the Free People . ''
2 And that is how Mowgli was entered into the Seeonee Wolf Pack for the price of a bull and on Baloo 's good word .
3 Now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole years , and only guess at all the wonderful life that Mowgli led among the wolves , because if it were written out it would fill ever so many books .
4 He grew up with the cubs , though they , of course , were grown wolves almost before he was a child .
5 And Father Wolf taught him his business , and the meaning of things in the jungle , till every rustle in the grass , every breath of the warm night air , every note of the owls above his head , every scratch of a bat 's claws as it roosted for a while in a tree , and every splash of every little fish jumping in a pool meant just as much to him as the work of his office means to a business man .
6 When he was not learning he sat out in the sun and slept , and ate and went to sleep again .
7 When he felt dirty or hot he swam in the forest pools ; and when he wanted honey -LRB- Baloo told him that honey and nuts were just as pleasant to eat as raw meat -RRB- he climbed up for it , and that Bagheera showed him how to do .
8 Bagheera would lie out on a branch and call , `` Come along , Little Brother , '' and at first Mowgli would cling like the sloth , but afterward he would fling himself through the branches almost as boldly as the gray ape .
9 He took his place at the Council Rock , too , when the Pack met , and there he discovered that if he stared hard at any wolf , the wolf would be forced to drop his eyes , and so he used to stare for fun .
10 At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the pads of his friends , for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and burs in their coats .
11 He would go down the hillside into the cultivated lands by night , and look very curiously at the villagers in their huts , but he had a mistrust of men because Bagheera showed him a square box with a drop gate so cunningly hidden in the jungle that he nearly walked into it , and told him that it was a trap .
12 He loved better than anything else to go with Bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest , to sleep all through the drowsy day , and at night see how Bagheera did his killing .
13 Bagheera killed right and left as he felt hungry , and so did Mowgli -- with one exception .
14 As soon as he was old enough to understand things , Bagheera told him that he must never touch cattle because he had been bought into the Pack at the price of a bull 's life .
15 `` All the jungle is thine , '' said Bagheera , `` and thou canst kill everything that thou art strong enough to kill ; but for the sake of the bull that bought thee thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old .
16 That is the Law of the Jungle . ''
17 Mowgli obeyed faithfully .
18 And he grew and grew strong as a boy must grow who does not know that he is learning any lessons , and who has nothing in the world to think of except things to eat .
19 Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere Khan was not a creature to be trusted , and that some day he must kill Shere Khan .
20 But though a young wolf would have remembered that advice every hour , Mowgli forgot it because he was only a boy -- though he would have called himself a wolf if he had been able to speak in any human tongue .
21 Shere Khan was always crossing his path in the jungle , for as Akela grew older and feebler the lame tiger had come to be great friends with the younger XXXXX of the Pack , who followed him for scraps , a thing Akela would never have allowed if he had dared to push his authority to the proper bounds .	wolves		befits|books|branches|coats|everything|jungle|life|pads|price|wolves

1 The doctors were not anxious about him Monday , though they said it was a pretty severe case . ''
2 A faint , wraith-like change of expression drifted over Emily 's beautiful face and was gone in a moment .
3 What was it -- relief ?
4 Regret ?
5 It would have been impossible to say .
6 When she next spoke her vibrant voice was as perfectly melodious as usual .
7 `` I think I will go to bed , Amelia .
8 John will not be back until late I suppose , and I am very tired .
9 There comes the rain .
10 I suppose it will spoil all the flowers .
11 They will be beaten to pieces . ''
12 In the dark hall Emily paused for a moment and opened the front door to be cut in the face with a whip-like dash of rain .
13 She peered out into the thickly gathering gloom .
14 Beyond , in the garden , she saw the asters tossed about , phantom-like .
15 The wind around the many-cornered old farmhouse was full of wails and sobs .
16 The clock in the sitting-room struck eight .
17 Emily shivered and shut the door .
18 She remembered that she had been married at eight o'clock that very morning seven years ago .
19 She thought she could see herself coming down the stairs in her white dress with her bouquet of asters .
20 For a moment she was glad that those mocking flowers in the garden would be all beaten to death before morning by the lash of wind and rain .
21 Then she recovered her mental poise and put the hateful memories away from her as she went steadily up the narrow XXXXX and along the hall with its curious slant as the house had settled , to her own room under the north-western eaves .	stairs		Monday|Regret|case|clock|doctors|flowers|gloom|hall|stairs|wails

1 He signalled : `` I must see you before you go . ''
2 `` Impossible .
3 Aunt will never forgive me .
4 Good-bye . ''
5 I saw a look of desperate determination cross his face .
6 If forty Aunt Marthas had swooped down upon me , I could not have torn my eyes from that glass .
7 `` I love you .
8 You know it .
9 Do you care for me ?
10 I must have my answer now . ''
11 What a situation !
12 No time or chance for any maidenly hesitation or softening aureole of words .
13 Aunt and Mrs. Saxby had almost reached the point where they invariably turned .
14 I had barely time to spell out a plain , blunt `` yes '' and read his answer .
15 `` I shall go home at once , get Mother and Connie , follow you , and demand possession of my property .
16 I shall win the day .
17 Have no fear .
18 Till then , good-bye , my darling . ''
19 `` Marguerite , '' said Mrs. Saxby at my elbow , `` it is time to go . ''
20 I got up obediently .
21 XXXXX Martha was as grim and uncompromising as ever , and Mrs. Saxby looked like a chief mourner , but do you suppose I cared ?	Aunt		Aunt|Mrs.|chance|darling|determination|elbow|eyes|home|plain|words

1 said Alice .
2 ` And where HAVE my shoulders got to ?
3 And oh , my poor hands , how is it I ca n't see you ? '
4 She was moving them about as she spoke , but no result seemed to follow , except a little shaking among the distant green leaves .
5 As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head , she tried to get her head down to them , and was delighted to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction , like a serpent .
6 She had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag , and was going to dive in among the leaves , which she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she had been wandering , when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a hurry : a large pigeon had flown into her face , and was beating her violently with its wings .
7 ` Serpent ! '
8 screamed the Pigeon .
9 ` I 'm NOT a serpent ! '
10 said Alice indignantly .
11 ` Let me alone ! '
12 ` Serpent , I say again ! '
13 repeated the Pigeon , but in a more subdued tone , and added with a kind of sob , ` I 've tried every way , and nothing seems to suit them ! ' '
14 I have n't the least idea what you 're talking about , ' said Alice .
15 ` I 've tried the roots of trees , and I 've tried banks , and I 've tried hedges , ' the Pigeon went on , without attending to her ; ` but those serpents !
16 There 's no pleasing them ! '
17 Alice was more and more puzzled , but she thought there was no use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished .
18 ` As if it was n't trouble enough hatching the eggs , ' said the Pigeon ; ` but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day !
19 Why , I have n't had a wink of sleep these three weeks ! '
20 ` I 'm very sorry you 've been annoyed , ' said Alice , who was beginning to see its meaning .
21 ` And just as I 'd taken the highest tree in the wood , ' continued the XXXXX , raising its voice to a shriek , ` and just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last , they must needs come wriggling down from the sky !	Pigeon		Pigeon|chance|dive|face|hiss|hurry|idea|kind|neck|result

1 Go and sweep up the pieces , and do try and be a little more careful , Charlotte . ''
2 `` Yes 'm , '' said Charlotta meekly .
3 She dared not resent being called Charlotte just then .
4 `` And I 'll tell you what I 'll do , ma'am , to make up , I 'll go and weed the garden .
5 Yes 'm , I 'll do it beautiful . ''
6 `` And pull up more flowers than weeds , '' Miss Corona reflected mournfully .
7 But it did not matter ; nothing mattered .
8 She saw Charlotta sally forth into the garden with a determined , do-or-die expression surmounting her freckles , without feeling interest enough to go and make sure that she did not root out all the late asters in her tardy and wilfully postponed warfare on weeds .
9 This mood lasted until the afternoon .
10 Then Miss Corona , whose heart and thoughts were still down in the festive house in the valley , roused herself enough to go out and see what Charlotta was doing .
11 After finding out , she wandered idly about the rambling , old-fashioned place , which was full of nooks and surprises .
12 At every turn you might stumble on some clump or tangle of sweetness , showering elusive fragrance on the air , that you would never have suspected .
13 Nothing in the garden was planted quite where it should be , yet withal it was the most delightful spot imaginable .
14 Miss Corona pushed her way into the cherry-tree copse , and followed a tiny , overgrown path to a sunshiny corner beyond .
15 She had not been there since last summer ; the little path was getting almost impassable .
16 When she emerged from the cherry trees , somewhat rumpled and pulled about in hair and attire , but attended , as if by a benediction , by the aromatic breath of the mint she had trodden on , she gave a little cry and stood quite still , gazing at the rosebush that grew in the corner .
17 It was so large and woody that it seemed more like a tree than a bush , and it was snowed over with a splendour of large , pure white roses .
18 `` Dear life , '' whispered Miss Corona tremulously , as she tiptoed towards it .
19 `` The bride roses have bloomed again !
20 How very strange !
21 Why , there has not been a rose on that XXXXX for twenty years . ''	tree		clump|corner|garden|mood|nooks|nothing|path|summer|tree|valley

1 I -- ' ` Oh , do n't bother ME , ' said the Duchess ; ' I never could abide figures ! '
2 And with that she began nursing her child again , singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so , and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line : ` Speak roughly to your little boy , And beat him when he sneezes : He only does it to annoy , Because he knows it teases . '
3 CHORUS .
4 -LRB- In which the cook and the baby joined -RRB- : -- ` Wow !
5 wow !
6 wow ! '
7 While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song , she kept tossing the baby violently up and down , and the poor little thing howled so , that Alice could hardly hear the words : -- ' I speak severely to my boy , I beat him when he sneezes ; For he can thoroughly enjoy The pepper when he pleases ! '
8 CHORUS .
9 ` Wow !
10 wow !
11 wow ! '
12 ` Here !
13 you may nurse it a bit , if you like ! '
14 the Duchess said to Alice , flinging the baby at her as she spoke . '
15 I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen , ' and she hurried out of the room .
16 The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out , but it just missed her .
17 Alice caught the baby with some difficulty , as it was a queer-shaped little creature , and held out its arms and legs in all directions , ` just like a star-fish , ' thought Alice .
18 The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it , and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again , so that altogether , for the first minute or two , it was as much as she could do to hold it .
19 As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it , -LRB- which was to twist it up into a sort of knot , and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot , so as to prevent its undoing itself , -RRB- she carried it out into the open air .
20 ` IF I do n't take this child away with me , ' thought Alice , ` they 're sure to kill it in a day or two : would n't it be murder to leave it behind ? '
21 She said the last XXXXX out loud , and the little thing grunted in reply -LRB- it had left off sneezing by this time -RRB- .	words		CHORUS|arms|bit|cook|creature|difficulty|directions|song|verse|words

1 No other water was at hand except that in the two bottles .
2 It was the only chance of seeing her lover before they were separated , and she did not hesitate to break the bottle and pour their contents into the basin , when the Rainbow appeared at once .
3 Their farewells were full of tenderness ; the Prince made the most ardent and sincere protestations , and promised to neglect nothing which might help to deliver his dear Fairer-than-a-Fairy from her captivity , and implored her to consent to their marriage as soon as they should both be free .
4 The Princess , on her side , vowed to have no other husband , and declared herself willing to brave death itself in order to rejoin him .
5 They were not allowed much time for their adieus ; the Rainbow vanished , and the Princess , resolved to run all risks , started off at once , taking nothing with her but her dog , her cat , a sprig of myrtle , and the stone which the wife of Locrinos gave her .
6 When Lagree became aware of her prisoner 's flight she was furious , and set off at full speed in pursuit .
7 She overtook her just as the poor girl , overcome by fatigue , had lain down to rest in a cave which the stone had formed itself into to shelter her .
8 The little dog who was watching her mistress promptly flew at Lagree and bit her so severely that she stumbled against a corner of the cave and broke off her only tooth .
9 Before she had recovered from the pain and rage this caused her , the Princess had time to escape , and was some way on her road .
10 Fear gave her strength for some time , but at last she could go no further , and sank down to rest .
11 As she did so , the sprig of myrtle she carried touched the ground , and immediately a green and shady bower sprang up round her , in which she hoped to sleep in peace .
12 But Lagree had not given up her pursuit , and arrived just as Fairer-than-a-Fairy had fallen fast asleep .
13 This time she made sure of catching her victim , but the cat spied her out , and , springing from one of the boughs of the arbour she flew at Lagree 's face and tore out her only eye , thus delivering the Princess for ever from her persecutor .
14 One might have thought that all would now be well , but no sooner had Lagree been put to fight than our heroine was overwhelmed with hunger and thirst .
15 She felt as though she should certainly expire , and it was with some difficulty that she dragged herself as far as a pretty little green and white house , which stood at no great distance .
16 Here she was received by a beautiful lady dressed in green and white to match the house , which apparently belonged to her , and of which she seemed the only inhabitant .
17 She greeted the fainting Princess most kindly , gave her an excellent supper , and after a long night 's rest in a delightful bed told her that after many troubles she should finally attain her desire .
18 As the green and white lady took leave of the Princess she gave her a nut , desiring her only to open it in the most urgent need .
19 After a long and tiring journey Fairer-than-a-Fairy was once more received in a house , and by a lady exactly like the one she had quitted .
20 Here again she received a present with the same injunctions , but instead of a nut this lady gave her a golden pomegranate .
21 The mournful Princess had to continue her weary way , and after many troubles and hardships she again found rest and shelter in a third XXXXX exactly similar to the two others .	house		boughs|cat|chance|distance|girl|house|peace|strength|thirst|tooth

1 `` Well , so he was , '' replied William Jeffers .
2 `` But he began to get in debt when his wife took sick .
3 He spent no end of money on doctors and medicines for her .
4 And then he seemed to have a streak of bad luck besides -- crops failed and cows died and all that sort of thing .
5 He 's been going behind ever since .
6 He kind of lost heart when his wife died .
7 And now Moore is going to foreclose .
8 It 's my opinion poor old Stephen wo n't live any time if he 's turned out of his home . ''
9 `` Do you know what the mortgage comes to ? ''
10 `` Near three thousand , counting overdue interest . ''
11 `` Well , I 'm sorry for old Stephen , '' said Gabe , returning to his game .
12 `` If anybody deserves a peaceful old age he does .
13 He 's helped more people than you could count , and he was the best Christian in Greenvale , or out of it . ''
14 `` He was too good , '' said a Greenvale man crustily .
15 `` He just let himself be imposed upon all his life .
16 There 's dozens of people owes him and he 's never asked for a cent from them .
17 And he 's always had some shiftless critter or other hanging round and devouring his substance . ''
18 `` D'ye mind that Ben Butler who used to be in Greenvale twenty years ago ? ''
19 asked a third man .
20 `` If ever there was an imp of Satan 't was him -- old Ezra Butler 's son from the valley .
21 Old Stephen kept him for three or four years and was as good to him as if he 'd been his own XXXXX . ''	son		age|anybody|cows|critter|game|heart|home|luck|mortgage|son

1 It had been raining heavily for one whole month -- raining on a camp of thirty thousand men and thousands of camels , elephants , horses , bullocks , and mules all gathered together at a place called Rawal Pindi , to be reviewed by the Viceroy of India .
2 He was receiving a visit from the Amir of Afghanistan -- a wild king of a very wild country .
3 The Amir had brought with him for a bodyguard eight hundred men and horses who had never seen a camp or a locomotive before in their lives -- savage men and savage horses from somewhere at the back of Central Asia .
4 Every night a mob of these horses would be sure to break their heel ropes and stampede up and down the camp through the mud in the dark , or the camels would break loose and run about and fall over the ropes of the tents , and you can imagine how pleasant that was for men trying to go to sleep .
5 My tent lay far away from the camel lines , and I thought it was safe .
6 But one night a man popped his head in and shouted , `` Get out , quick !
7 They 're coming !
8 My tent 's gone ! ''
9 I knew who `` they '' were , so I put on my boots and waterproof and scuttled out into the slush .
10 Little Vixen , my fox terrier , went out through the other side ; and then there was a roaring and a grunting and bubbling , and I saw the tent cave in , as the pole snapped , and begin to dance about like a mad ghost .
11 A camel had blundered into it , and wet and angry as I was , I could not help laughing .
12 Then I ran on , because I did not know how many camels might have got loose , and before long I was out of sight of the camp , plowing my way through the mud .
13 At last I fell over the tail-end of a gun , and by that knew I was somewhere near the artillery lines where the cannon were stacked at night .
14 As I did not want to plowter about any more in the drizzle and the dark , I put my waterproof over the muzzle of one gun , and made a sort of wigwam with two or three rammers that I found , and lay along the tail of another gun , wondering where Vixen had got to , and where I might be .
15 Just as I was getting ready to go to sleep I heard a jingle of harness and a grunt , and a mule passed me shaking his wet ears .
16 He belonged to a screw-gun battery , for I could hear the rattle of the straps and rings and chains and things on his saddle pad .
17 The screw-guns are tiny little cannon made in two pieces , that are screwed together when the time comes to use them .
18 They are taken up mountains , anywhere that a mule can find a road , and they are very useful for fighting in rocky country .
19 Behind the mule there was a camel , with his big soft feet squelching and slipping in the mud , and his neck bobbing to and fro like a strayed hen 's .
20 Luckily , I knew enough of beast language -- not wild-beast language , but camp-beast language , of course -- from the natives to know what he was saying .
21 He must have been the one that flopped into my XXXXX , for he called to the mule , `` What shall I do ?	tent		camp|country|hen|king|lives|men|sight|sort|tail|tent

1 They hurried as quickly as they could to the old King , who received them with joy and gladness .
2 On the following day a most gorgeous wedding feast was held , and as far as we know the Prince and his bride lived happily for ever afterwards .
3 THE DEAD WIFE -LRB- 20 -RRB- -LRB- 20 -RRB- From the Iroquois .
4 Once upon a time there were a man and his wife who lived in the forest , very far from the rest of the tribe .
5 Very often they spent the day in hunting together , but after a while the wife found that she had so many things to do that she was obliged to stay at home ; so he went alone , though he found that when his wife was not with him he never had any luck .
6 One day , when he was away hunting , the woman fell ill , and in a few days she died .
7 Her husband grieved bitterly , and buried her in the house where she had passed her life ; but as the time went on he felt so lonely without her that he made a wooden doll about her height and size for company , and dressed it in her clothes .
8 He seated it in front of the fire , and tried to think he had his wife back again .
9 The next day he went out to hunt , and when he came home the first thing he did was to go up to the doll and brush off some of the ashes from the fire which had fallen on its face .
10 But he was very busy now , for he had to cook and mend , besides getting food , for there was no one to help him .
11 And so a whole year passed away .
12 At the end of that time he came back from hunting one night and found some wood by the door and a fire within .
13 The next night there was not only wood and fire , but a piece of meat in the kettle , nearly ready for eating .
14 He searched all about to see who could have done this , but could find no one .
15 The next time he went to hunt he took care not to go far , and came in quite early .
16 And while he was still a long way off he saw a woman going into the house with wood on her shoulders .
17 So he made haste , and opened the door quickly , and instead of the wooden doll , his wife sat in front of the fire .
18 Then she spoke to him and said , ` The Great Spirit felt sorry for you , because you would not be comforted , so he let me come back to you , but you must not stretch out your hand to touch me till we have seen the rest of our people .
19 If you do , I shall die . '
20 So the man listened to her words , and the woman dwelt there , and brought the wood and kindled the fire , till one day her husband said to her , ` It is now two years since you died .
21 Let us now go back to our XXXXX .	tribe		brush|face|front|haste|hunting|joy|one|thing|tribe|wife

1 Another charge and they are fairly started .
2 Careful , now -- careful , Akela .
3 A snap too much and the bulls will charge .
4 Hujah !
5 This is wilder work than driving black-buck .
6 Didst thou think these creatures could move so swiftly ? ''
7 Mowgli called .
8 `` I have -- have hunted these too in my time , '' gasped Akela in the dust .
9 `` Shall I turn them into the jungle ? ''
10 `` Ay !
11 Turn .
12 Swiftly turn them !
13 Rama is mad with rage .
14 Oh , if I could only tell him what I need of him to-day . ''
15 The bulls were turned , to the right this time , and crashed into the standing thicket .
16 The other herd children , watching with the cattle half a mile away , hurried to the village as fast as their legs could carry them , crying that the buffaloes had gone mad and run away .
17 But Mowgli 's plan was simple enough .
18 All he wanted to do was to make a big circle uphill and get at the head of the ravine , and then take the bulls down it and catch Shere Khan between the bulls and the cows ; for he knew that after a meal and a full drink Shere Khan would not be in any condition to fight or to clamber up the sides of the ravine .
19 He was soothing the buffaloes now by voice , and Akela had dropped far to the rear , only whimpering once or twice to hurry the rear-guard .
20 It was a long , long circle , for they did not wish to get too near the ravine and give Shere Khan warning .
21 At last Mowgli rounded up the bewildered herd at the head of the ravine on a grassy patch that sloped steeply down to the XXXXX itself .	ravine		condition|cows|drink|head|jungle|ravine|rear|sides|voice|work

1 We will call you May Blossom . '
2 ` Farewell , farewell ! '
3 said the little swallow with a heavy heart , and flew away to farther lands , far , far away , right back to Denmark .
4 There he had a little nest above a window , where his wife lived , who can tell fairy-stories .
5 ` Tweet , tweet ! '
6 he sang to her .
7 And that is the way we learnt the whole story .
8 THE NIGHTINGALE In China , as I daresay you know , the Emperor is a Chinaman , and all his courtiers are also Chinamen .
9 The story I am going to tell you happened many years ago , but it is worth while for you to listen to it , before it is forgotten .
10 The Emperor 's Palace was the most splendid in the world , all made of priceless porcelain , but so brittle and delicate that you had to take great care how you touched it .
11 In the garden were the most beautiful flowers , and on the loveliest of them were tied silver bells which tinkled , so that if you passed you could not help looking at the flowers .
12 Everything in the Emperor 's garden was admirably arranged with a view to effect ; and the garden was so large that even the gardener himself did not know where it ended .
13 If you ever got beyond it , you came to a stately forest with great trees and deep lakes in it .
14 The forest sloped down to the sea , which was a clear blue .
15 Large ships could sail under the boughs of the trees , and in these trees there lived a Nightingale .
16 She sang so beautifully that even the poor fisherman who had so much to do stood and listened when he came at night to cast his nets .
17 ` How beautiful it is ! '
18 he said ; but he had to attend to his work , and forgot about the bird .
19 But when she sang the next night and the fisherman came there again , he said the same thing , ` How beautiful it is ! '
20 From all the countries round came travellers to the Emperor 's town , who were astonished at the Palace and the garden .
21 But when they heard the XXXXX they all said , ` This is the finest thing after all ! '	Nightingale		Nightingale|Palace|blue|courtiers|farewell|heart|lakes|thing|world|years

1 Estella knew that her story was in everyone 's mouth , and her pride smarted ; but she carried a brave front outwardly .
2 No one should say she cared .
3 She believed that the actress was merely deluding Spencer for her own amusement and would never dream of marrying him .
4 But one day the idea occurred to her that she might .
5 Estella had always told herself that even if Spencer wanted to come back to her she would never take him back , but now , by the half-sick horror that came over her , she knew how strong the hope had really been and despised herself more than ever .
6 One evening she was alone in the parlour .
7 She had lit the lamp and was listlessly arranging the little room .
8 She looked old and worn .
9 Her colour was gone and her eyes were dull .
10 As she worked , the door opened and Vivienne LeMar walked or , rather , reeled into the room .
11 Estella dropped the book she held and gazed at her as one in a dream .
12 The actress 's face was flushed and her hair was wildly disordered .
13 Her eyes glittered with an unearthly light .
14 She was talking incoherently .
15 The air was heavy with the fumes of brandy .
16 Estella laughed hysterically .
17 Vivienne LeMar was grossly intoxicated .
18 This woman whom Spencer Morgan worshipped , for whom he had forsaken her , was reeling about the room , laughing idiotically , talking wildly in a thick voice .
19 If he could but see her now !
20 Estella turned white with the passion of the wild idea that had come to her .
21 Spencer Morgan should see this XXXXX in her true colours .	woman		brandy|everyone|hope|horror|light|one|passion|pride|room|woman

1 One day Jacky Hart died -- drifted out with the ebb tide , holding Frances 's hand .
2 She had loved the patient , sweet-souled little creature and missed him greatly .
3 When the time to go home came Frances felt dull .
4 She hated to leave Windy Meadows and Corona and her dear shore people and Aunt Eleanor and -- and -- well , Margaret Ann Peabody .
5 Elliott Sherwood came up the night before she went away .
6 When Margaret Ann showed him reverentially in , Frances was sitting in a halo of sunset light , and the pale , golden chrysanthemums in her hair shone like stars in the blue-black coils .
7 Elliott Sherwood had been absent from Windy Meadows for several days .
8 There was a subdued jubilance in his manner .
9 `` You think I have come to say good-bye , but I have n't , '' he told her .
10 `` I shall see you again very soon , I hope .
11 I have just received a call to Castle Street church , and it is my intention to accept .
12 So Corona and I will be in town this winter . ''
13 Frances tried to tell him how glad she was , but only stammered .
14 Elliott Sherwood came close up to her as she stood by the window in the fading light , and said -- But on second thoughts I shall not record what he said -- or what she said either .
15 Some things should be left to the imagination .
16 Why Mr. Cropper Changed His Mind `` Well , Miss Maxwell , how did you get along today ? ''
17 asked Mr. Baxter affably , when the new teacher came to the table .
18 She was a slight , dark girl , rather plain-looking , but with a smart , energetic way .
19 Mr. Baxter approved of her ; he `` liked her style , '' as he would have said .
20 The summer term had just opened in the Maitland district .
21 Esther Maxwell was a stranger , but she was a capable XXXXX , and had no doubt of her own ability to get and keep the school in good working order .	girl		Mr.|girl|imagination|light|style|things|thoughts|town|way|window

1 The servants came in to look at their dead Emperor .
2 The Emperor said , ` Good-morning ! '
3 HERMOD AND HADVOR -LRB- 32 -RRB- -LRB- 32 -RRB- From the Icelandic .
4 Once upon a time there were a King and a Queen who had an only daughter , called Hadvor , who was fair and beautiful , and being an only child , was heir to the kingdom .
5 The King and Queen had also a foster son , named Hermod , who was just about the same age as Hadvor , and was good-looking , as well as clever at most things .
6 Hermod and Hadvor often played together while they were children , and liked each other so much that while they were still young they secretly plighted their troth to each other .
7 As time went on the Queen fell sick , and suspecting that it was her last illness , sent for the King to come to her .
8 When he came she told him that she had no long time to live , and therefore wished to ask one thing of him , which was , that if he married another wife he should promise to take no other one than the Queen of Hetland the Good .
9 The King gave the promise , and thereafter the Queen died .
10 Time went past , and the King , growing tired of living alone , fitted out his ship and sailed out to sea .
11 As he sailed there came upon him so thick a mist that he altogether lost his bearings , but after long trouble he found land .
12 There he laid his ship to , and went on shore all alone .
13 After walking for some time he came to a forest , into which he went a little way and stopped .
14 Then he heard sweet music from a harp , and went in the direction of the sound until he came to a clearing , and there he saw three women , one of whom sat on a golden chair , and was beautifully and grandly dressed ; she held a harp in her hands , and was very sorrowful .
15 The second was also finely dressed , but younger in appearance , and also sat on a chair , but it was not so grand as the first one 's .
16 The third stood beside them , and was very pretty to look at ; she had a green cloak over her other clothes , and it was easy to see that she was maid to the other two .
17 After the King had looked at them for a little he went forward and saluted them .
18 The one that sat on the golden chair asked him who he was and where he was going ; and he told her all the story -- how he was a king , and had lost his queen , and was now on his way to Hetland the Good , to ask the Queen of that country in marriage .
19 She answered that fortune had contrived this wonderfully , for pirates had plundered Hetland and killed the King , and she had fled from the land in terror , and had come hither after great trouble , and she was the very person he was looking for , and the others were her daughter and maid .
20 The King immediately asked her hand ; she gladly received his proposal and accepted him at once .
21 Thereafter they all set out , and made their way to the XXXXX ; and after that nothing is told of their voyage until the King reached his own country .	ship		chair|child|clearing|cloak|hand|music|servants|ship|shore|story

1 One day the Prince and his suite went out for a ride in a wood where his father sometimes held a hunt .
2 Their way led through a stream whose banks were overgrown with thick brushwood .
3 Just as the horsemen were about to ford the river , a hare , startled by the sound of the horses ' hoofs , started up from the grass and ran towards the thicket .
4 The young Prince pursued the little creature , and had almost overtaken it , when the girth of his saddle suddenly broke in two and he fell heavily to the ground .
5 No sooner had his foot touched the earth than he disappeared before the eyes of the horrified courtiers .
6 They sought for him far and near , but all in vain , and they were forced to recognise the power of the evil Fairy , against which the Queen had warned them on her death-bed .
7 The old King was much grieved when they brought him the news of his son 's disappearance , but as he could do nothing to free him from his fate , he gave himself up to an old age of grief and loneliness , cherishing at the same time the hope that some lucky chance might one day deliver the youth out of the hands of his enemy .
8 Hardly had the Prince touched the ground than he felt himself violently seized by an unseen power , and hurried away he knew not whither .
9 A whole new world stretched out before him , quite unlike the one he had left .
10 A splendid castle surrounded by a huge lake was the abode of the Fairy , and the only approach to it was over a bridge of clouds .
11 On the other side of the lake high mountains rose up , and dark woods stretched along the banks ; over all hung a thick mist , and deep silence reigned everywhere .
12 No sooner had the Fairy reached her own domain than she made herself visible , and turning to the Prince she told him that unless he obeyed all her commands down to the minutest detail he would be severely punished .
13 Then she gave him an axe made of glass , and bade him cross the bridge of clouds and go into the wood beyond and cut down all the trees there before sunset .
14 At the same time she cautioned him with many angry words against speaking to a black girl he would most likely meet in the wood .
15 The Prince listened to her words meekly , and when she had finished took up the glass axe and set out for the forest .
16 At every step he seemed to sink into the clouds , but fear gave wings to his feet , and he crossed the lake in safety and set to work at once .
17 But no sooner had he struck the first blow with his axe than it broke into a thousand pieces against the tree .
18 The poor youth was so terrified he did not know what to do , for he was in mortal dread of the punishment the wicked old Fairy would inflict on him .
19 He wandered to and fro in the wood , not knowing where he was going , and at last , worn out by fatigue and misery , he sank on the ground and fell fast asleep .
20 He did not know how long he had slept when a sudden sound awoke him , and opening his eyes he saw a black girl standing beside him .
21 Mindful of the XXXXX 's warning he did not dare to address her , but she on her part greeted him in the most friendly manner , and asked him at once if he were under the power of the wicked Fairy .	Fairy		Fairy|detail|father|mist|nothing|pieces|time|wings|wood|youth

1 Edward and Geraldine do n't need it -- I know that -- but there may be those that will .
2 And if it hurts your feelings to walk ` longside of a countrified old lady with a countrified basket , why , you can just fall behind , as it were . ''
3 Aunt Cyrilla nodded and smiled good-humouredly , and Lucy Rose , though she privately held to her own opinion , had to smile too .
4 `` Now , let me see , '' said Aunt Cyrilla reflectively , tapping the snowy kitchen table with the point of her plump , dimpled forefinger , `` what shall I take ?
5 That big fruit cake for one thing -- Edward does like my fruit cake ; and that cold boiled tongue for another .
6 Those three mince pies too , they 'd spoil before we got back or your uncle 'd make himself sick eating them -- mince pie is his besetting sin .
7 And that little stone bottle full of cream -- Geraldine may carry any amount of style , but I 've yet to see her look down on real good country cream , Lucy Rose ; and another bottle of my raspberry vinegar .
8 That plate of jelly cookies and doughnuts will please the children and fill up the chinks , and you can bring me that box of ice-cream candy out of the pantry , and that bag of striped candy sticks your uncle brought home from the corner last night .
9 And apples , of course -- three or four dozen of those good eaters -- and a little pot of my greengage preserves -- Edward 'll like that .
10 And some sandwiches and pound cake for a snack for ourselves .
11 Now , I guess that will do for eatables .
12 The presents for the children can go in on top .
13 There 's a doll for Daisy and the little boat your uncle made for Ray and a tatted lace handkerchief apiece for the twins , and the crochet hood for the baby .
14 Now , is that all ? ''
15 `` There 's a cold roast chicken in the pantry , '' said Lucy Rose wickedly , `` and the pig Uncle Leo killed is hanging up in the porch .
16 Could n't you put them in too ? ''
17 Aunt Cyrilla smiled broadly .
18 `` Well , I guess we 'll leave the pig alone ; but since you have reminded me of it , the chicken may as well go in .
19 I can make room . ''
20 Lucy Rose , in spite of her prejudices , helped with the packing and , not having been trained under Aunt Cyrilla 's eye for nothing , did it very well too , with much clever economy of space .
21 But when XXXXX Cyrilla had put in as a finishing touch a big bouquet of pink and white everlastings , and tied the bulging covers down with a firm hand , Lucy Rose stood over the basket and whispered vindictively : `` Some day I 'm going to burn this basket -- when I get courage enough .	Aunt		Aunt|children|course|doll|dozen|opinion|pie|presents|sandwiches|spite

1 There was a four-acre field behind the house .
2 Both had been left to her by an uncle .
3 The field was of no use to Miss Cordelia ; she did n't keep a cow and she had n't time to make a garden .
4 But she liked her field ; when people asked her why she did n't sell it she said : `` I 'm fond of it .
5 I like to walk around in it when the grass grows long .
6 And it may come in handy some time .
7 Mother used to say if you kept anything seven years it would come to use .
8 I 've had my field a good bit longer than that , but maybe the time will come yet .
9 Meanwhile I rejoice in the fact that I am a landed proprietor to the extent of four acres . ''
10 Miss Cordelia had thought of converting her field into a playground for the factory children and asking detachments of them over on Saturday afternoon .
11 But she knew that her Point Pleasant neighbours would object to this , so that project was dropped .
12 When Miss Cordelia pushed open her little gate , hung crookedly in a very compact and prim spruce hedge , she stopped in amazement and said , `` Well , for pity 's sake ! ''
13 Cynthia Ann Flemming , who lived on the other side of the spruce hedge , now came hurrying over .
14 `` Good evening , Cordelia .
15 I have a letter that was left with me for you . ''
16 `` But -- that -- horse , '' said Miss Cordelia , with a long breath between every word .
17 `` Where did he come from ?
18 Tied at my front door -- and he 's eaten the tops off every one of my geraniums !
19 Where 's his owner or rider or something ? ''
20 The horse in question was a mild-eyed , rather good-looking quadruped , tied by a halter to the elm at Miss Cordelia 's door and contentedly munching a mouthful of geranium stalks .
21 Cynthia Ann came through the hedge with the XXXXX .	letter		amazement|door|fact|gate|hedge|letter|pity|proprietor|side|uncle

1 I got up obediently .
2 Aunt Martha was as grim and uncompromising as ever , and Mrs. Saxby looked like a chief mourner , but do you suppose I cared ?
3 I dropped behind them just once before we left the shore .
4 I knew he was watching me and I waved my hand .
5 I suppose I am really engaged to Francis Shelmardine .
6 But was there ever such a funny wooing ?
7 And what will Aunt Martha say ?
8 After Many Days The square , bare front room of the Baxter Station Hotel -- so called because there was no other house in the place to dispute the title -- was filled with men .
9 Some of them were putting up at the hotel while they worked at the new branch line , and some of them had dropped in to exchange news and banter while waiting for the mail train .
10 Gabe Foley , the proprietor , was playing at checkers with one of the railroad men , but was not too deeply absorbed in the game to take in all that was said around him .
11 The air was dim with tobacco smoke , and the brilliant , scarlet geraniums which Mrs. Foley kept in the bay window looked oddly out of place .
12 Gabe knew all those present except one man -- a stranger who had landed at Baxter Station from the afternoon freight .
13 Foley 's hotel did not boast of a register , and the stranger did not volunteer any information regarding his name or business .
14 He had put in the afternoon and early evening strolling about the village and talking to the men on the branch line .
15 Now he had come in and ensconced himself in the corner behind the stove , where he preserved a complete silence .
16 He had a rather rough face and was flashily dressed .
17 Altogether , Gabe hardly liked his looks , put as long as a man paid his bill and did not stir up a row Gabe Foley did not interfere with him .
18 Three or four farmers from `` out Greenvale way '' were drawn up by the stove , discussing the cheese factory sales and various Greenvale happenings .
19 The stranger appeared to be listening to them intently , although he took no part in their conversation .
20 Presently he brought his tilted chair down with a sharp thud .
21 Gabe Foley had paused in his manipulation of a king to hurl a question at the Greenvale XXXXX .	men		air|farmers|hand|hotel|house|information|men|place|stranger|village

1 How Jake and Wade 'd roar to hear them two names in partnership !
2 But I 'm going to pull up a bit after this , see if I do n't , just to justify the old man 's faith in me .
3 ` Twould be too bad to disappoint him if he 's believed for so long that I was going to turn out all right yet . ''
4 When the 4:30 train went out Ben Butler stood on the rear platform .
5 Gabe Foley watched him abstractedly as he receded .
6 `` Blamed if I know who that fellow was , '' he remarked to a crony .
7 `` He never told his name , but seems to me I 've seen him before .
8 He has a kind of hang-dog look , I think .
9 But he paid up square and it is none of my business . ''
10 An Unconventional Confidence The Girl in Black-and-Yellow ran frantically down the grey road under the pines .
11 There was nobody to see her , but she would have run if all Halifax had been looking on .
12 For had she not on the loveliest new hat -- a `` creation '' in yellow chiffon with big black choux -- and a dress to match ?
13 And was there not a shower coming straight from the hills across the harbour ?
14 Down at the end of the long resinous avenue the Girl saw the shore road , with the pavilion shutting out the view of the harbour 's mouth .
15 Below the pavilion , clean-shaven George 's Island guarded the town like a sturdy bulldog , and beyond it were the wooded hills , already lost in a mist of rain .
16 `` Oh , I shall be too late , '' moaned the Girl .
17 But she held her hat steady with one hand and ran on .
18 If she could only reach the pavilion in time !
19 It was a neck-and-neck race between the rain and the Girl , but the Girl won .
20 Just as she flew out upon the shore road , a tall Young Man came pelting down the latter , and they both dashed up the steps of the pavilion together as the rain swooped down upon them and blotted George 's Island and the smoky town and the purple banks of the Eastern Passage from view .
21 The pavilion was small at the best of times , and just now the XXXXX was beating into it on two sides , leaving only one dry corner .	rain		Girl|end|hand|hat|kind|look|pavilion|race|rain|town

1 said the Soldier .
2 ` But what am I to give you , old Witch ; for surely you are not going to do this for nothing ? '
3 ` Yes , I am ! '
4 replied the Witch .
5 ` Not a single farthing will I take !
6 For me you shall bring nothing but an old tinder-box which my grandmother forgot last time she was down there . '
7 ` Well , tie the rope round my waist !
8 ` said the Soldier .
9 ` Here it is , ' said the Witch , ` and here is my blue-check apron . '
10 Then the Soldier climbed up the tree , let himself down through the hole , and found himself standing , as the Witch had said , underground in the large hall , where the three hundred lamps were burning .
11 Well , he opened the first door .
12 Ugh !
13 there sat the dog with eyes as big as saucers glaring at him .
14 ` You are a fine fellow ! '
15 said the Soldier , and put him on the Witch 's apron , took as much copper as his pockets could hold ; then he shut the chest , put the dog on it again , and went into the second room .
16 Sure enough there sat the dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels .
17 ` You had better not look at me so hard ! '
18 said the Soldier .
19 ` Your eyes will come out of their sockets ! '
20 And then he set the dog on the apron .
21 When he saw all the silver in the chest , he threw away the copper he had taken , and filled his pockets and knapsack with XXXXX but silver .	nothing		Witch|eyes|grandmother|hole|lamps|nothing|sockets|standing|time|tree

1 I hurt it when I was trying to root up an oak-tree . '
2 The Herd-boy took off his shirt , and bound up the Giant 's wounded foot with it .
3 Then the Giant rose up and said , ` Now come and I will reward you .
4 We are going to celebrate a marriage to-day , and I promise you we shall have plenty of fun .
5 Come and enjoy yourself , but in order that my brothers may n't see you , put this band round your waist and then you 'll be invisible . '
6 With these words he handed the Herd-boy a belt , and walking on in front he led him to a fountain where hundreds of Giants and Giantesses were assembled preparing to hold a wedding .
7 They danced and played different games till midnight ; then one of the Giants tore up a plant by its roots , and all the Giants and Giantesses made themselves so thin that they disappeared into the earth through the hole made by the uprooting of the plant .
8 The wounded Giant remained behind to the last and called out , ` Herd-boy , where are you ? '
9 ` Here I am , close to you , ' was the reply .
10 ` Touch me , ' said the Giant , ` so that you too may come with us under ground . '
11 The Herd-boy did as he was told , and before he could have believed it possible he found himself in a big hall , where even the walls were made of pure gold .
12 Then to his astonishment he saw that the hall was furnished with the tables and chairs that belonged to his master .
13 In a few minutes the company began to eat and drink .
14 The banquet was a very gorgeous one , and the poor youth fell to and ate and drank lustily .
15 When he had eaten and drunk as much as he could he thought to himself , ` Why should n't I put a loaf of bread in my pocket ?
16 I shall be glad of it to-morrow . '
17 So he seized a loaf when no one was looking and stowed it away under his tunic .
18 No sooner had he done so than the wounded Giant limped up to him and whispered softly , ` Herd-boy , where are you ? '
19 ` Here I am , ' replied the youth .
20 ` Then hold on to me , ' said the Giant , ` so that I may lead you up above again . '
21 So the Herd-boy held on to the XXXXX , and in a few moments he found himself on the earth once more , but the Giant had vanished .	Giant		Giant|company|earth|foot|games|master|one|plant|reply|to-morrow

1 He was as one distraught .
2 `` Min , '' he wailed again , striving tremblingly to feel her pulse while cold drops came out on his forehead .
3 Min 's face was as pallid as marble , save for one heavy bruise across the cheek and a cruel cut at the edge of the dark hair , from which the blood trickled down on the pillow .
4 She opened her eyes wonderingly at his call , looking up with a dazed , appealing expression of pain and dread .
5 A low moan broke from her white lips .
6 Telford sprang to his feet in a tumult of quivering joy .
7 `` Min , dear , '' he said gently , `` you have been hurt -- not seriously , I hope .
8 I must leave you for a minute while I run for help -- I will not be long . ''
9 `` Come back , '' said Min in a low but distinct tone .
10 He paused impatiently .
11 `` It is of no use to get help , '' Min went on calmly .
12 `` I 'm dying -- I know it .
13 Oh , my God ! ''
14 She pressed her hand to her side and writhed .
15 Telford turned desperately to the door .
16 Min raised her arm .
17 `` Come here , '' she said resolutely .
18 He obeyed mutely .
19 She looked up at him with bright , unquailing eyes .
20 `` Do n't you go one step -- do n't leave me here to die alone .
21 I 'm past XXXXX -- and I 've something to say to you .	help		arm|blood|bruise|call|cheek|door|edge|hair|help|joy

1 He had almost forgotten the days when he won Mother Wolf in fair fight from five other wolves , when she ran in the Pack and was not called The Demon for compliment 's sake .
2 Shere Khan might have faced Father Wolf , but he could not stand up against Mother Wolf , for he knew that where he was she had all the advantage of the ground , and would fight to the death .
3 So he backed out of the cave mouth growling , and when he was clear he shouted : `` Each dog barks in his own yard !
4 We will see what the Pack will say to this fostering of man-cubs .
5 The cub is mine , and to my teeth he will come in the end , O bush-tailed thieves ! ''
6 Mother Wolf threw herself down panting among the cubs , and Father Wolf said to her gravely : `` Shere Khan speaks this much truth .
7 The cub must be shown to the Pack .
8 Wilt thou still keep him , Mother ? ''
9 `` Keep him ! ''
10 she gasped .
11 `` He came naked , by night , alone and very hungry ; yet he was not afraid !
12 Look , he has pushed one of my babes to one side already .
13 And that lame butcher would have killed him and would have run off to the Waingunga while the villagers here hunted through all our lairs in revenge !
14 Keep him ?
15 Assuredly I will keep him .
16 Lie still , little frog .
17 O thou Mowgli -- for Mowgli the Frog I will call thee -- the time will come when thou wilt hunt Shere Khan as he has hunted thee . ''
18 `` But what will our Pack say ? ''
19 said Father Wolf .
20 The Law of the Jungle lays down very clearly that any wolf may , when he marries , withdraw from the Pack he belongs to .
21 But as soon as his XXXXX are old enough to stand on their feet he must bring them to the Pack Council , which is generally held once a month at full moon , in order that the other wolves may identify them .	cubs		Frog|Lie|O|cubs|sake|thieves|truth|villagers|wolf|wolves

1 He soon finished the skinning , and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands .
2 He had hardly dipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water , and seizing him in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves .
3 When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew very anxious , and when his game bag was found close to the mill-pond she guessed at once what had befallen him .
4 She was nearly beside herself with grief , and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husband without ceasing .
5 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
6 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
7 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
8 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
9 The hunter 's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .
10 Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon , but it passed at last , and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond , combed her black hair with a golden comb , and when she had finished , placed the comb on the bank ; then she watched the water impatiently .
11 Soon she heard a rushing sound , and a big wave rose suddenly and swept the comb off the bank , and a minute after the head of her husband rose from the pond and gazed sadly at her .
12 But immediately another wave came , and the head sank back into the water without having said a word .
13 The pond lay still and motionless , glittering in the moonshine , and the hunter 's wife was not a bit better off than she had been before .
14 In despair she wandered about for days and nights , and at last , worn out by fatigue , she sank once more into a deep sleep , and dreamt exactly the same dream about the old witch .
15 So next morning she went again to the flowery meadow and sought the witch in her hut , and told her of her grief .
16 The old woman counselled her to go to the mill-pond the next full moon and play upon a golden flute , and then to lay the flute on the bank .
17 As soon as the next moon was full the hunter 's wife went to the mill-pond , played on a golden flute , and when she had finished placed it on the bank .
18 Then a rushing sound was heard , and a wave swept the flute off the bank , and soon the head of the hunter appeared and rose up higher and higher till he was half out of the water .
19 Then he gazed sadly at his wife and stretched out his arms towards her .
20 But another rushing wave arose and dragged him under once more .
21 The hunter 's wife , who had stood on the bank full of joy and hope , sank into despair when she saw her XXXXX snatched away again before her eyes .	husband		dream|hunter|husband|sleep|sound|time|water|wave|witch|woman

1 It was such a pretty sight !
2 She could sing , too , with a voice more soft and sweet than had ever been heard before .
3 One night , when she was lying in her pretty little bed , an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window .
4 She was very ugly , clumsy , and clammy ; she hopped on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose-leaf .
5 ` This would make a beautiful wife for my son , ' said the toad , taking up the walnut-shell , with Thumbelina inside , and hopping with it through the window into the garden .
6 There flowed a great wide stream , with slippery and marshy banks ; here the toad lived with her son .
7 Ugh !
8 how ugly and clammy he was , just like his mother !
9 ` Croak , croak , croak ! '
10 was all he could say when he saw the pretty little girl in the walnut-shell .
11 ` Do n't talk so load , or you 'll wake her , ' said the old toad .
12 ` She might escape us even now ; she is as light as a feather .
13 We will put her at once on a broad water-lily leaf in the stream .
14 That will be quite an island for her ; she is so small and light .
15 She ca n't run away from us there , whilst we are preparing the guest-chamber under the marsh where she shall live . '
16 Outside in the brook grew many water-lilies , with broad green leaves , which looked as if they were swimming about on the water .
17 The leaf farthest away was the largest , and to this the old toad swam with Thumbelina in her walnut-shell .
18 The tiny Thumbelina woke up very early in the morning , and when she saw where she was she began to cry bitterly ; for on every side of the great green leaf was water , and she could not get to the land .
19 The old toad was down under the marsh , decorating her room with rushes and yellow marigold leaves , to make it very grand for her new daughter-in-law ; then she swam out with her ugly son to the leaf where Thumbelina lay .
20 She wanted to fetch the pretty cradle to put it into her room before Thumbelina herself came there .
21 The old toad bowed low in the water before her , and said : ` Here is my son ; you shall marry him , and live in great magnificence down under the XXXXX . '	marsh		banks|feather|garden|girl|light|marsh|room|side|water|wife

1 He saw the glittering palace , which by the pale rays of the moon looked like a dim lamp ; and he saw the high windows , and round one of them a balcony in which the beautiful Princess sat lost in sad thoughts .
2 Then the boy saw that he was close to the apple-tree , and drawing a small knife from his belt , he cut off both the eagle 's feet .
3 The bird rose up in the air in its agony and vanished into the clouds , and the youth fell on to the broad branches of the apple-tree .
4 Then he drew out the claws of the eagle 's feet that had remained in his flesh , and put the peel of one of the golden apples on the wound , and in one moment it was healed and well again .
5 He pulled several of the beautiful apples and put them in his pocket ; then he entered the castle .
6 The door was guarded by a great dragon , but as soon as he threw an apple at it , the beast vanished .
7 At the same moment a gate opened , and the youth perceived a courtyard full of flowers and beautiful trees , and on a balcony sat the lovely enchanted Princess with her retinue .
8 As soon as she saw the youth , she ran towards him and greeted him as her husband and master .
9 She gave him all her treasures , and the youth became a rich and mighty ruler .
10 But he never returned to the earth , for only the mighty eagle , who had been the guardian of the Princess and of the castle , could have carried on his wings the enormous treasure down to the world .
11 But as the eagle had lost its feet it died , and its body was found in a wood on the Glass Mountain .
12 ... .
13 .
14 One day when the youth was strolling about in the palace garden with the Princess , his wife , he looked down over the edge of the Glass Mountain and saw to his astonishment a great number of people gathered there .
15 He blew his silver whistle , and the swallow who acted as messenger in the golden castle flew past .
16 ` Fly down and ask what the matter is , ' he said to the little bird , who sped off like lightning and soon returned saying : ` The blood of the eagle has restored all the people below to life .
17 All those who have perished on this mountain are awakening up to-day , as it were from a sleep , and are mounting their horses , and the whole population are gazing on this unheard-of wonder with joy and amazement . '
18 ALPHEGE , OR THE GREEN MONKEY Many years ago there lived a King , who was twice married .
19 His first wife , a good and beautiful woman , died at the birth of her little son , and the King her husband was so overwhelmed with grief at her loss that his only comfort was in the sight of his heir .
20 When the time for the young Prince 's christening came the King chose as godmother a neighbouring Princess , so celebrated for her wisdom and goodness that she was commonly called ` the Good Queen . '
21 She named the baby Alphege , and from that XXXXX took him to her heart .	moment		agony|apple|beast|belt|blood|door|matter|moment|population|retinue

1 ` Never fear , little mother , ' answered Martin ; ` trust me , and you will see all will be well .
2 You may go to sleep with a quiet mind . '
3 And , stepping to the front of the hut , Martin threw his ring from the palm of one hand into the other , upon which twelve youths instantly appeared , and demanded what he wanted them to do .
4 Then he told them the King 's commands , and they answered that by next morning all should be accomplished exactly as the King had ordered .
5 Next morning when the King awoke , and looked out of his window , to his amazement he beheld a magnificent castle , just opposite his own palace , and joined to it a bridge of pure crystal .
6 At each side of the bridge trees were growing , from whose branches hung golden and silver apples , among which birds of Paradise perched .
7 At the right , gleaming in the sun , were the five golden cupolas of a splendid church , whose bells rang out , as if they would summon people from all corners of the earth to come and behold the wonder .
8 Now , though the King would much rather have seen his future son-in-law tarred , feathered , and burnt at the stake , he remembered his royal oath , and had to make the best of a bad business .
9 So he took heart of grace , and made Martin a Duke , and gave his daughter a rich dowry , and prepared the grandest wedding-feast that had ever been seen , so that to this day the old people in the country still talk of it .
10 After the wedding Martin and his royal bride went to dwell in the magnificent new palace , and here Martin lived in the greatest comfort and luxury , such luxury as he had never imagined .
11 But though he was as happy as the day was long , and as merry as a grig , the King 's daughter fretted all day , thinking of the indignity that had been done her in making her marry Martin , the poor widow 's son , instead of a rich young Prince from a foreign country .
12 So unhappy was she that she spent all her time wondering how she should get rid of her undesirable husband .
13 And first she determined to learn the secret of his power , and , with flattering , caressing words , she tried to coax him to tell her how he was so clever that there was nothing in the world that he could not do .
14 At first he would tell her nothing ; but once , when he was in a yielding mood , she approached him with a winning smile on her lovely face , and , speaking flattering words to him , she gave him a potion to drink , with a sweet , strong taste .
15 And when he had drunk it Martin 's lips were unsealed , and he told her that all his power lay in the magic ring that he wore on his finger , and he described to her how to use it , and , still speaking , he fell into a deep sleep .
16 And when she saw that the potion had worked , and that he was sound asleep , the Princess took the magic ring from his finger , and , going into the courtyard , she threw it from the palm of one hand into the other .
17 On the instant the twelve youths appeared , and asked her what she commanded them to do .
18 Then she told them that by the next morning they were to do away with the castle , and the bridge , and the church , and put in their stead the humble hut in which Martin used to live with his mother , and that while he slept her husband was to be carried to his old lowly room ; and that they were to bear her away to the utmost ends of the earth , where an old King lived who would make her welcome in his palace , and surround her with the state that befitted a royal Princess .
19 ` You shall be obeyed , ' answered the twelve youths at the same moment .
20 And lo and behold !
21 the following morning , when the King awoke and looked out of his window he beheld to his amazement that the palace , bridge , church , and trees had all vanished , and there was XXXXX in their place but a bare , miserable-looking hut .	nothing		courtyard|earth|lo|merry|mood|mother|nothing|state|stead|widow

1 ` Grieved as I was over the theft , I did not punish the gardener , of whose fidelity I was well assured , but I determined to pluck off all the fruit in the following year before it was ripe , as I had not much belief in the magician 's warning . '
2 I carried out my intention , and had all the fruit picked off the tree , but when I tasted one of the apples it was bitter and unpleasant , and the next morning the rest of the fruit had all rotted away .
3 ` After this I had the beautiful fruit of these trees carefully guarded by my most faithful servants ; but every year , on this very night , the fruit was plucked and stolen by an invisible hand , and next morning not a single apple remained on the trees .
4 For some time past I have given up even having the trees watched . '
5 When the King had finished his story , Szabo , his eldest son , said to him : ` Forgive me , father , if I say I think you are mistaken .
6 I am sure there are many men in your kingdom who could protect these trees from the cunning arts of a thieving magician ; I myself , who as your eldest son claim the first right to do so , will mount guard over the fruit this very night . '
7 The King consented , and as soon as evening drew on Szabo climbed up on to one of the trees , determined to protect the fruit even if it cost him his life .
8 So he kept watch half the night ; but a little after midnight he was overcome by an irresistible drowsiness , and fell fast asleep .
9 He did not awake till it was bright daylight , and all the fruit on the trees had vanished .
10 The following year Warza , the second brother , tried his luck , but with the same result .
11 Then it came to the turn of the third and youngest son .
12 Iwanich was not the least discouraged by the failure of his elder brothers , though they were both much older and stronger than he was , and when night came climbed up the tree as they had done , The moon had risen , and with her soft light lit up the whole neighbourhood , so that the observant Prince could distinguish the smallest object distinctly .
13 At midnight a gentle west wind shook the tree , and at the same moment a snow-white swan-like bird sank down gently on his breast .
14 The Prince hastily seized the bird 's wings in his hands , when , lo !
15 to his astonishment he found he was holding in his arms not a bird but the most beautiful girl he had ever seen .
16 ` You need not fear Militza , ' said the beautiful girl , looking at the Prince with friendly eyes .
17 ` An evil magician has not robbed you of your fruit , but he stole the seed from my mother , and thereby caused her death .
18 When she was dying she bade me take the fruit , which you have no right to possess , from the trees every year as soon as it was ripe .
19 This I would have done to-night too , if you had not seized me with such force , and so broken the spell I was under . '
20 Iwanich , who had been prepared to meet a terrible magician and not a lovely girl , fell desperately in love with her .
21 They spent the XXXXX of the night in pleasant conversation , and when Militza wished to go away he begged her not to leave him . '	rest		bird|fidelity|fruit|intention|luck|morning|rest|seed|servants|trees

1 I know who I am , and that is enough for me ! '
2 One day something thick lay near her which glittered so brightly that the Darning-needle thought it must be a diamond .
3 But it was a bit of bottle-glass , and because it sparkled the Darning-needle spoke to it , and gave herself out as a breast-pin .
4 ` No doubt you are a diamond ? '
5 ` Yes , something of that kind ! '
6 And each believed that the other was something very costly ; and they both said how very proud the world must be of them . '
7 I have come from a lady 's work-box , ' said Darning-needle , ` and this lady was a cook ; she had five fingers on each hand ; anything so proud as these fingers I have never seen !
8 And yet they were only there to take me out of the work-box and to put me back again ! '
9 ` Were they of noble birth , then ? '
10 asked the bit of bottle-glass .
11 ` Of noble birth ! '
12 said the Darning-needle ; ` no indeed , but proud !
13 They were five brothers , all called '' Fingers . ''
14 They held themselves proudly one against the other , although they were of different sizes .
15 The outside one , the Thumb , was short and fat ; he was outside the rank , and had only one bend in his back , and could only make one bow ; but he said that if he were cut off from a man that he was no longer any use as a soldier .
16 Dip-into-everything , the second finger , dipped into sweet things as well as sour things , pointed to the sun and the moon , and guided the pen when they wrote .
17 Longman , the third , looked at the others over his shoulder .
18 Goldband , the fourth , had a gold sash round his waist ; and little Playman did nothing at all , and was the more proud .
19 There was too much ostentation , and so I came away . '
20 ` And now we are sitting and shining here ! '
21 said the XXXXX of bottle-glass .	bit		anything|back|bit|bow|lady|pen|shoulder|sizes|soldier|thought

1 He made his bound before he saw what it was he was jumping at , and then he tried to stop himself .
2 The result was that he shot up straight into the air for four or five feet , landing almost where he left ground .
3 `` Man ! ''
4 he snapped .
5 `` A man 's cub .
6 Look ! ''
7 Directly in front of him , holding on by a low branch , stood a naked brown baby who could just walk -- as soft and as dimpled a little atom as ever came to a wolf 's cave at night .
8 He looked up into Father Wolf 's face , and laughed .
9 `` Is that a man 's cub ? ''
10 said Mother Wolf .
11 `` I have never seen one .
12 Bring it here . ''
13 A Wolf accustomed to moving his own cubs can , if necessary , mouth an egg without breaking it , and though Father Wolf 's jaws closed right on the child 's back not a tooth even scratched the skin as he laid it down among the cubs .
14 `` How little !
15 How naked , and -- how bold ! ''
16 said Mother Wolf softly .
17 The baby was pushing his way between the cubs to get close to the warm hide .
18 `` Ahai !
19 He is taking his meal with the others .
20 And so this is a man 's cub .
21 Now , was there ever a wolf that could boast of a XXXXX 's cub among her children ? ''	man		air|baby|branch|cave|egg|front|ground|man|meal|skin

1 At last , worn out with sorrow and fatigue , she fell asleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow , when she came to a hut where she found an old witch , who promised to restore her husband to her .
2 When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find the witch ; so she wandered on for many a day , and at last she reached the flowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived .
3 The poor wife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dream of the witch 's power to help her .
4 The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was a full moon , and to comb her black hair with a golden comb , and then to place the comb on the bank .
5 The hunter 's wife gave the witch a handsome present , thanked her heartily , and returned home .
6 Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon , but it passed at last , and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond , combed her black hair with a golden comb , and when she had finished , placed the comb on the bank ; then she watched the water impatiently .
7 Soon she heard a rushing sound , and a big wave rose suddenly and swept the comb off the bank , and a minute after the head of her husband rose from the pond and gazed sadly at her .
8 But immediately another wave came , and the head sank back into the water without having said a word .
9 The pond lay still and motionless , glittering in the moonshine , and the hunter 's wife was not a bit better off than she had been before .
10 In despair she wandered about for days and nights , and at last , worn out by fatigue , she sank once more into a deep sleep , and dreamt exactly the same dream about the old witch .
11 So next morning she went again to the flowery meadow and sought the witch in her hut , and told her of her grief .
12 The old woman counselled her to go to the mill-pond the next full moon and play upon a golden flute , and then to lay the flute on the bank .
13 As soon as the next moon was full the hunter 's wife went to the mill-pond , played on a golden flute , and when she had finished placed it on the bank .
14 Then a rushing sound was heard , and a wave swept the flute off the bank , and soon the head of the hunter appeared and rose up higher and higher till he was half out of the water .
15 Then he gazed sadly at his wife and stretched out his arms towards her .
16 But another rushing wave arose and dragged him under once more .
17 The hunter 's wife , who had stood on the bank full of joy and hope , sank into despair when she saw her husband snatched away again before her eyes .
18 But for her comfort she dreamt the same dream a third time , and betook herself once more to the old witch 's hut in the flowery meadow .
19 This time the old woman told her to go the next full moon to the mill-pond , and to spin there with a golden spinning-wheel , and then to leave the spinning-wheel on the bank .
20 The hunter 's wife did as she was advised , and the first night the moon was full she sat and spun with a golden spinning-wheel , and then left the wheel on the bank .
21 In a few minutes a rushing XXXXX was heard in the waters , and a wave swept the spinning-wheel from the bank .	sound		arms|bank|dream|home|hope|hut|sorrow|sound|time|wave

1 He ordered some nets to be prepared and painted of the same colours as the bird 's plumage , thinking that we are all easily caught by what is like ourselves .
2 In this he had to help him not only the fowlers by profession , but also his attendants , who excelled in this art .
3 For a man is not a courtier unless he can do everything .
4 After searching as usual for nearly a whole day Prince Saphir began to feel overcome with thirst .
5 He was too tired to go any farther , when happily he discovered a little way off a bubbling fountain of the clearest water .
6 Being an experienced traveller , he drew from his pocket a little cup -LRB- without which no one should ever take a journey -RRB- , and was just about to dip it in the water , when a lovely little green frog , much prettier than frogs generally are , jumped into the cup .
7 Far from admiring its beauty , Saphir shook it impatiently off ; but it was no good , for quick as lightning the frog jumped back again .
8 Saphir , who was raging with thirst , was just about to shake it off anew , when the little creature fixed upon him the most beautiful eyes in the world , and said , ' I am a friend of the bird you are seeking , and when you have quenched your thirst listen to me . '
9 So the Prince drank his fill , and then , by the command of the Little Green Frog , he lay down on the grass to rest himself .
10 ` Now , ' she began , ` be sure you do exactly in every respect what I tell you .
11 First you must call together your attendants , and order them to remain in a little hamlet close by until you want them .
12 Then go , quite alone , down a road that you will find on your right hand , looking southwards .
13 This road is planted all the way with cedars of Lebanon ; and after going down it a long way you will come at last to a magnificent castle .
14 And now , ' she went on , ` attend carefully to what I am going to say .
15 Take this tiny grain of sand , and put it into the ground as close as you can to the gate of the castle .
16 It has the virtue both of opening the gate and also of sending to sleep all the inhabitants .
17 Then go at once to the stable , and pay no heed to anything except what I tell you .
18 Choose the handsomest of all the horses , leap quickly on its back , and come to me as fast as you can .
19 Farewell , Prince ; I wish you good luck , ' and with these words the Little Frog plunged into the water and disappeared .
20 The Prince , who felt more hopeful than he had done since he left home , did precisely as he had been ordered .
21 He left his attendants in the hamlet , found the road the XXXXX had described to him , and followed it all alone , and at last he arrived at the gate of the castle , which was even more splendid than he had expected , for it was built of crystal , and all its ornaments were of massive gold .	frog		bird|close|courtier|eyes|fountain|frog|man|nets|profession|thirst

1 Last of all she took the Queen , put her into the boat , and said -- ` This spell I lay upon you , that you slacken not your course until you come to my brother in the Underworld . '
2 The Queen sat stunned and motionless , but the boat at once shot away from the ship with her , and before long she was out of sight .
3 When the boat could no longer be seen the child began to cry , and though the Witch tried to quiet it she could not manage it ; so she went below to where the King was sleeping with the child on her arm , and awakened him , scolding him for leaving them alone on deck , while he and all the crew were asleep .
4 It was great carelessness of him , she said , to leave no one to watch the ship with her .
5 Sigurd was greatly surprised to hear his Queen scold him so much , for she had never said an angry word to him before ; but he thought it was quite excusable in this case , and tried to quiet the child along with her , but it was no use .
6 Then he went and wakened the sailors , and bade them hoist the sails , for a breeze had sprung up and was blowing straight towards the harbour .
7 They soon reached the land which Sigurd was to rule over , and found all the people sorrowful for the old King 's death , but they became glad when they got Sigurd back to the Court , and made him King over them .
8 The King 's son , however , hardly ever stopped crying from the time he had been taken from his mother on the deck of the ship , although he had always been such a good child before , so that at last the King had to get a nurse for him -- one of the maids of the Court .
9 As soon as the child got into her charge he stopped crying , and behaved well as before .
10 After the sea-voyage it seemed to the King that the Queen had altered very much in many ways , and not for the better .
11 He thought her much more haughty and stubborn and difficult to deal with than she used to be .
12 Before long others began to notice this as well as the King .
13 In the Court there were two young fellows , one of eighteen years old , the other of nineteen , who were very fond of playing chess , and often sat long inside playing at it .
14 Their room was next the Queen 's , and often during the day they heard the Queen talking .
15 One day they paid more attention than usual when they heard her talk , and put their ears close to a crack in the wall between the rooms , and heard the Queen say quite plainly , ` When I yawn a little , then I am a nice little maiden ; when I yawn half-way , then I am half a troll ; and when I yawn fully , then I am a troll altogether . '
16 As she said this she yawned tremendously , and in a moment had put on the appearance of a fearfully ugly troll .
17 Then there came up through the floor of the room a three-headed Giant with a trough full of meat , who saluted her as his sister and set down the trough before her .
18 She began to eat out of it , and never stopped till she had finished it .
19 The young fellows saw all this going on , but did not hear the two of them say anything to each other .
20 They were astonished though at how greedily the Queen devoured the meat , and how much she ate of it , and were no longer surprised that she took so little when she sat at table with the King .
21 As soon as she had finished it the Giant disappeared with the XXXXX by the same way as he had come , and the Queen returned to her human shape .	trough		Underworld|charge|chess|child|deck|mother|talk|trough|wall|ways

1 The Monkey People !
2 Faugh ! ''
3 A fresh shower came down on their heads and the two trotted away , taking Mowgli with them .
4 What Baloo had said about the monkeys was perfectly true .
5 They belonged to the tree-tops , and as beasts very seldom look up , there was no occasion for the monkeys and the Jungle-People to cross each other 's path .
6 But whenever they found a sick wolf , or a wounded tiger , or bear , the monkeys would torment him , and would throw sticks and nuts at any beast for fun and in the hope of being noticed .
7 Then they would howl and shriek senseless songs , and invite the Jungle-People to climb up their trees and fight them , or would start furious battles over nothing among themselves , and leave the dead monkeys where the Jungle-People could see them .
8 They were always just going to have a leader , and laws and customs of their own , but they never did , because their memories would not hold over from day to day , and so they compromised things by making up a saying , `` What the Bandar-log think now the jungle will think later , '' and that comforted them a great deal .
9 None of the beasts could reach them , but on the other hand none of the beasts would notice them , and that was why they were so pleased when Mowgli came to play with them , and they heard how angry Baloo was .
10 They never meant to do any more -- the Bandar-log never mean anything at all ; but one of them invented what seemed to him a brilliant idea , and he told all the others that Mowgli would be a useful person to keep in the tribe , because he could weave sticks together for protection from the wind ; so , if they caught him , they could make him teach them .
11 Of course Mowgli , as a woodcutter 's child , inherited all sorts of instincts , and used to make little huts of fallen branches without thinking how he came to do it .
12 The Monkey-People , watching in the trees , considered his play most wonderful .
13 This time , they said , they were really going to have a leader and become the wisest people in the jungle -- so wise that everyone else would notice and envy them .
14 Therefore they followed Baloo and Bagheera and Mowgli through the jungle very quietly till it was time for the midday nap , and Mowgli , who was very much ashamed of himself , slept between the Panther and the Bear , resolving to have no more to do with the Monkey People .
15 The next thing he remembered was feeling hands on his legs and arms -- hard , strong , little hands -- and then a swash of branches in his face , and then he was staring down through the swaying boughs as Baloo woke the jungle with his deep cries and Bagheera bounded up the trunk with every tooth bared .
16 The Bandar-log howled with triumph and scuffled away to the upper branches where Bagheera dared not follow , shouting : `` He has noticed us !
17 Bagheera has noticed us .
18 All the Jungle-People admire us for our skill and our cunning . ''
19 Then they began their flight ; and the flight of the Monkey-People through tree-land is one of the things nobody can describe .
20 They have their regular roads and crossroads , up hills and down hills , all laid out from fifty to seventy or a hundred feet above ground , and by these they can travel even at night if necessary .
21 Two of the strongest monkeys caught Mowgli under the XXXXX and swung off with him through the treetops , twenty feet at a bound .	arms		None|arms|boughs|crossroads|flight|heads|howl|protection|shower|trees

1 he said .
2 Then he sat down beside us on the rocks at the Mermaid 's Pool and told us the whole story , and read his letter to us .
3 It was the most amazing thing .
4 It seems Father had had relations after all -- a brother and a sister in particular .
5 But when he was a young man he quarrelled with his brother , who did n't treat him very well -- but he 's been dead for years , so I wo n't say a word against him -- and had gone away from home .
6 He never went back , and he never even let them know he was living .
7 Father says that this was very wrong of him , and I suppose it was , since he says so ; but I do n't see how Father could do anything wrong .
8 Anyway , he had a sister Esther whom he loved very much ; but he felt bitter against her too , because he thought she took his brother 's part too much .
9 So , though a letter of hers , asking him to go back , did reach him , he never answered it , and he never heard anything more .
10 Years afterward he felt sorry and went back , but his brother was dead and his sister had gone away , and he could n't find out a single thing about her .
11 So much for that ; and now about the kite .
12 The letter Father had just received was from his sister , our Aunt Esther and the mother of Dick and Mimi .
13 She was living at a place hundreds of miles inland .
14 Her husband was dead and , as we found out later , although she did not say a word about it in the letter , she was very poor .
15 One day when Dick and Mimi were out in the woods looking for botany specimens they saw something funny in the top of a tree .
16 Dick climbed up and got it .
17 It was a big red kite with a patch on each side and names written on it .
18 They carried it home to their mother .
19 Dick has since told us that she turned as pale as the dead when she saw our names on it .
20 You see , Philippa was her mother 's name and Claude was her father 's .
21 And when she read the letter that was pasted over the hole in the kite she knew who we must be , for it was the very XXXXX she had written to her brother so long ago .	letter		Pool|anything|kite|letter|mother|name|names|part|patch|word

1 She was afraid she had been undignified , but she wished for a moment that Clemantiny was there .
2 Wicked as she feared it was , Miss Salome thought she could have enjoyed a tilt between her ancient handmaid and Mrs. Elwell .
3 `` I beg your pardon , Mrs. Elwell , if I have used any intemperate expressions , '' she said with great dignity .
4 `` You provoked me more than was becoming by your remarks .
5 I wish you good morning . ''
6 Mrs. Elwell slammed the door shut .
7 With her cheeks even more than usually rosy , Miss Salome led Chester down to the gate , untied her horse and drove out of the yard .
8 Not until they reached the main road did she trust herself to speak to the dazed lad beside her .
9 `` What a disagreeable women ! ''
10 she ejaculated at last .
11 `` I do n't wonder you ran away , Chester -- I do n't , indeed !
12 Though , mind you , I do n't think it was right , for all that .
13 But I 'm gladder than words can say that she would n't take you back .
14 You are mine now , and you will stay mine .
15 I want you to call me Aunt Salome after this .
16 Get up , horse !
17 If we can catch that train at Roxbury , we 'll be home by night yet . ''
18 Chester was too happy to speak .
19 He had never felt so glad and grateful in his life before .
20 They got home that night just as the sun was setting redly behind the great maples on the western hill .
21 As they drove into the XXXXX , Clemantiny 's face appeared , gazing at them over the high board fence of the cow-yard .	yard		Miss|cheeks|dignity|door|expressions|home|remarks|sun|women|yard

1 Oh , my dear Dinah !
2 I wonder if I shall ever see you any more ! '
3 And here poor Alice began to cry again , for she felt very lonely and low-spirited .
4 In a little while , however , she again heard a little pattering of footsteps in the distance , and she looked up eagerly , half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind , and was coming back to finish his story .
5 CHAPTER IV .
6 The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill It was the White Rabbit , trotting slowly back again , and looking anxiously about as it went , as if it had lost something ; and she heard it muttering to itself ` The Duchess !
7 The Duchess !
8 Oh my dear paws !
9 Oh my fur and whiskers !
10 She 'll get me executed , as sure as ferrets are ferrets !
11 Where CAN I have dropped them , I wonder ? '
12 Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves , and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them , but they were nowhere to be seen -- everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool , and the great hall , with the glass table and the little door , had vanished completely .
13 Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice , as she went hunting about , and called out to her in an angry tone , ` Why , Mary Ann , what ARE you doing out here ?
14 Run home this moment , and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan !
15 Quick , now ! '
16 And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to , without trying to explain the mistake it had made .
17 ` He took me for his housemaid , ' she said to herself as she ran .
18 ` How surprised he 'll be when he finds out who I am !
19 But I 'd better take him his fan and gloves -- that is , if I can find them . '
20 As she said this , she came upon a neat little house , on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name ` W. RABBIT ' engraved upon it .
21 She went in without knocking , and hurried upstairs , in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann , and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and XXXXX .	gloves		Rabbit|footsteps|gloves|hunting|mistake|moment|something|story|while|whiskers

1 ` This would make a beautiful wife for my son , ' said the toad , taking up the walnut-shell , with Thumbelina inside , and hopping with it through the window into the garden .
2 There flowed a great wide stream , with slippery and marshy banks ; here the toad lived with her son .
3 Ugh !
4 how ugly and clammy he was , just like his mother !
5 ` Croak , croak , croak ! '
6 was all he could say when he saw the pretty little girl in the walnut-shell .
7 ` Do n't talk so load , or you 'll wake her , ' said the old toad .
8 ` She might escape us even now ; she is as light as a feather .
9 We will put her at once on a broad water-lily leaf in the stream .
10 That will be quite an island for her ; she is so small and light .
11 She ca n't run away from us there , whilst we are preparing the guest-chamber under the marsh where she shall live . '
12 Outside in the brook grew many water-lilies , with broad green leaves , which looked as if they were swimming about on the water .
13 The leaf farthest away was the largest , and to this the old toad swam with Thumbelina in her walnut-shell .
14 The tiny Thumbelina woke up very early in the morning , and when she saw where she was she began to cry bitterly ; for on every side of the great green leaf was water , and she could not get to the land .
15 The old toad was down under the marsh , decorating her room with rushes and yellow marigold leaves , to make it very grand for her new daughter-in-law ; then she swam out with her ugly son to the leaf where Thumbelina lay .
16 She wanted to fetch the pretty cradle to put it into her room before Thumbelina herself came there .
17 The old toad bowed low in the water before her , and said : ` Here is my son ; you shall marry him , and live in great magnificence down under the marsh . '
18 ` Croak , croak , croak ! '
19 was all that the son could say .
20 Then they took the neat little cradle and swam away with it ; but Thumbelina sat alone on the great green leaf and wept , for she did not want to live with the clammy toad , or marry her ugly son .
21 The little fishes swimming about under the XXXXX had seen the toad quite plainly , and heard what she had said ; so they put up their heads to see the little girl .	water		feather|girl|island|land|leaves|magnificence|mother|water|wife|window

1 Now he was rich indeed .
2 He put the dog back upon the chest , shut the door , and then called up through the tree : ` Now pull me up again , old Witch ! '
3 ` Have you got the tinder-box also ? '
4 asked the Witch .
5 ` Botheration ! '
6 said the Soldier , ' I had clean forgotten it ! '
7 And then he went back and fetched it .
8 The Witch pulled him up , and there he stood again on the high road , with pockets , knapsack , cap and boots filled with gold .
9 ` What do you want to do with the tinder-box ? '
10 asked the Soldier .
11 ` That does n't matter to you , ' replied the Witch .
12 ` You have got your money , give me my tinder-box . '
13 ` We 'll see ! '
14 said the Soldier .
15 ` Tell me at once what you want to do with it , or I will draw my sword , and cut off your head ! '
16 ` No ! '
17 screamed the Witch .
18 The Soldier immediately cut off her head .
19 That was the end of her !
20 But he tied up all his gold in her apron , slung it like a bundle over his shoulder , put the tinder-box in his pocket , and set out towards the town .
21 It was a splendid XXXXX !	town		bundle|cap|dog|money|pocket|pockets|road|shoulder|town|tree

1 The Crab then gave his wife the same directions as before , only this time the apple which she received from the black man was of gold .
2 But before the Prince went to the tournament he said to his wife , ` Now I know you will betray me to-day . '
3 But she swore to him that she would not tell who he was .
4 He then repeated his warning and went away .
5 In the evening , while the Princess , with her mother and sisters , was standing at the window , the Prince suddenly galloped past on his steed and threw her the golden apple .
6 Then her mother flew into a passion , gave her a box on the ear , and cried out , ` Does not even that prince please you , you fool ? '
7 The Princess in her fright exclaimed , ` That is the Crab himself ! '
8 Her mother was still more angry because she had not been told sooner , ran into her daughter 's room where the crab-shell was still lying , took it up and threw it into the fire .
9 Then the poor Princess cried bitterly , but it was of no use ; her husband did not come back .
10 Now we must leave the Princess and turn to the other persons in the story .
11 One day an old man went to a stream to dip in a crust of bread which he was going to eat , when a dog came out of the water , snatched the bread from his hand , and ran away .
12 The old man ran after him , but the dog reached a door , pushed it open , and ran in , the old man following him .
13 He did not overtake the dog , but found himself above a staircase , which he descended .
14 Then he saw before him a stately palace , and , entering , he found in a large hall a table set for twelve persons .
15 He hid himself in the hall behind a great picture , that he might see what would happen .
16 At noon he heard a great noise , so that he trembled with fear .
17 When he took courage to look out from behind the picture , he saw twelve eagles flying in .
18 At this sight his fear became still greater .
19 The eagles flew to the basin of a fountain that was there and bathed themselves , when suddenly they were changed into twelve handsome youths .
20 Now they seated themselves at the table , and one of them took up a goblet filled with wine , and said , ' A health to my father ! '
21 And another said , ' A health to my XXXXX ! '	mother		courage|directions|eagles|health|mother|palace|room|stream|wife|window

1 `` What in the name of common sense is the good of your Flower Banders if you ca n't keep the place looking decent ? ''
2 `` There is no Flower Band now , Father , '' whispered Polly in turn .
3 `` We 've disbanded .
4 Women have n't any business to meddle in church matters .
5 You know the session said so . ''
6 It was well for Polly that she was too big to have her ears boxed .
7 Even so , it might not have saved her if they had been anywhere else than in church .
8 Meanwhile the men who were sitting in the choir -- three basses and two tenors -- were beginning to dimly suspect that there was something amiss here too .
9 Where were the sopranos and the altos ?
10 Myra Wilson and Alethea Craig and several other members of the choir were sitting down in their pews with perfectly unconscious faces .
11 Myra was looking out of the window into the tangled sunlight and shadow of the great maples .
12 Alethea Craig was reading her Bible .
13 Presently Frances Spenslow came in .
14 Frances was organist , but today , instead of walking up to the platform , she slipped demurely into her father 's pew at one side of the pulpit .
15 Eben Craig , who was the Putney singing master and felt himself responsible for the choir , fidgeted uneasily .
16 He tried to catch Frances 's eye , but she was absorbed in reading the mission report she had found in the rack , and Eben was finally forced to tiptoe down to the Spenslow pew and whisper , `` Miss Spenslow , the minister is waiting for the doxology .
17 Are n't you going to take the organ ? ''
18 Frances looked up calmly .
19 Her clear , placid voice was audible not only to those in the nearby pews , but to the minister .
20 `` No , Mr. Craig .
21 You know if a woman is n't fit to speak in the XXXXX she ca n't be fit to sing in it either . ''	church		Mr.|church|ears|minister|pews|something|sopranos|tenors|today|voice

1 and other songs so prettily that the mole fell in love with her ; but he did not say anything , he was a very cautious man .
2 A short time before he had dug a long passage through the ground from his own house to that of his neighbour ; in this he gave the field-mouse and Thumbelina permission to walk as often as they liked .
3 But he begged them not to be afraid of the dead bird that lay in the passage : it was a real bird with beak and feathers , and must have died a little time ago , and now laid buried just where he had made his tunnel .
4 The mole took a piece of rotten wood in his mouth , for that glows like fire in the dark , and went in front , lighting them through the long dark passage .
5 When they came to the place where the dead bird lay , the mole put his broad nose against the ceiling and pushed a hole through , so that the daylight could shine down .
6 In the middle of the path lay a dead swallow , his pretty wings pressed close to his sides , his claws and head drawn under his feathers ; the poor bird had evidently died of cold .
7 Thumbelina was very sorry , for she was very fond of all little birds ; they had sung and twittered so beautifully to her all through the summer .
8 But the mole kicked him with his bandy legs and said : ` Now he ca n't sing any more !
9 It must be very miserable to be a little bird !
10 I 'm thankful that none of my little children are ; birds always starve in winter . '
11 ` Yes , you speak like a sensible man , ' said the field-mouse .
12 ` What has a bird , in spite of all his singing , in the winter-time ?
13 He must starve and freeze , and that must be very pleasant for him , I must say ! '
14 Thumbelina did not say anything ; but when the other two had passed on she bent down to the bird , brushed aside the feathers from his head , and kissed his closed eyes gently .
15 ` Perhaps it was he that sang to me so prettily in the summer , ' she thought .
16 ` How much pleasure he did give me , dear little bird ! '
17 The mole closed up the hole again which let in the light , and then escorted the ladies home .
18 But Thumbelina could not sleep that night ; so she got out of bed , and plaited a great big blanket of straw , and carried it off , and spread it over the dead bird , and piled upon it thistle-down as soft as cotton-wool , which she had found in the field-mouse 's room , so that the poor little thing should lie warmly buried .
19 ` Farewell , pretty little bird ! '
20 she said .
21 ` XXXXX , and thank you for your beautiful songs in the summer , when the trees were green , and the sun shone down warmly on us ! '	Farewell		Farewell|anything|children|cold|front|legs|mouth|none|piece|singing

1 Come and enjoy yourself , but in order that my brothers may n't see you , put this band round your waist and then you 'll be invisible . '
2 With these words he handed the Herd-boy a belt , and walking on in front he led him to a fountain where hundreds of Giants and Giantesses were assembled preparing to hold a wedding .
3 They danced and played different games till midnight ; then one of the Giants tore up a plant by its roots , and all the Giants and Giantesses made themselves so thin that they disappeared into the earth through the hole made by the uprooting of the plant .
4 The wounded Giant remained behind to the last and called out , ` Herd-boy , where are you ? '
5 ` Here I am , close to you , ' was the reply .
6 ` Touch me , ' said the Giant , ` so that you too may come with us under ground . '
7 The Herd-boy did as he was told , and before he could have believed it possible he found himself in a big hall , where even the walls were made of pure gold .
8 Then to his astonishment he saw that the hall was furnished with the tables and chairs that belonged to his master .
9 In a few minutes the company began to eat and drink .
10 The banquet was a very gorgeous one , and the poor youth fell to and ate and drank lustily .
11 When he had eaten and drunk as much as he could he thought to himself , ` Why should n't I put a loaf of bread in my pocket ?
12 I shall be glad of it to-morrow . '
13 So he seized a loaf when no one was looking and stowed it away under his tunic .
14 No sooner had he done so than the wounded Giant limped up to him and whispered softly , ` Herd-boy , where are you ? '
15 ` Here I am , ' replied the youth .
16 ` Then hold on to me , ' said the Giant , ` so that I may lead you up above again . '
17 So the Herd-boy held on to the Giant , and in a few moments he found himself on the earth once more , but the Giant had vanished .
18 The Herd-boy returned to his sheep , and took off the invisible belt which he hid carefully in his bag .
19 The next morning the lad felt hungry , and thought he would cut off a piece of the loaf he had carried away from the Giants ' wedding feast , and eat it .
20 But although he tried with all his might , he could n't cut off the smallest piece .
21 Then in despair he bit the XXXXX , and what was his astonishment when a piece of gold fell out of his mouth and rolled at his feet .	loaf		Giant|bag|earth|front|hall|loaf|order|plant|reply|tables

1 said the Queen furiously , throwing an inkstand at the Lizard as she spoke .
2 -LRB- The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his slate with one finger , as he found it made no mark ; but he now hastily began again , using the ink , that was trickling down his face , as long as it lasted . -RRB-
3 ` Then the words do n't FIT you , ' said the King , looking round the court with a smile .
4 There was a dead silence .
5 ` It 's a pun ! '
6 the King added in an offended tone , and everybody laughed , ` Let the jury consider their verdict , ' the King said , for about the twentieth time that day .
7 ` No , no ! '
8 said the Queen .
9 ` Sentence first -- verdict afterwards . '
10 ` Stuff and nonsense ! '
11 said Alice loudly .
12 ` The idea of having the sentence first ! '
13 ` Hold your tongue ! '
14 said the Queen , turning purple . '
15 I wo n't ! '
16 said Alice .
17 ` Off with her head ! '
18 the Queen shouted at the top of her voice .
19 Nobody moved .
20 ` Who cares for you ? '
21 said Alice , -LRB- she had grown to her full size by this XXXXX . -RRB-	time		court|finger|idea|nonsense|pun|round|time|tone|tongue|verdict

1 But the third said contemptuously , ` It is not worth the trouble !
2 Let him live ; he can not remain here , and if he goes higher up the mountain the clouds will take him and carry him off . '
3 Talking thus they went away .
4 But the Hunter had listened to their talk , and as soon as they had gone he rose and climbed to the summit .
5 When he had sat there a little while a cloud swept by , and , seizing him , carried him away .
6 It travelled for a time in the sky , and then it sank down and hovered over a large vegetable garden surrounded by walls , so that he came safely to the ground amidst cabbages and vegetables .
7 The Hunter then looked about him , saying , ` If only I had something to eat !
8 I am so hungry , and it will go badly with me in the future , for I see here not an apple or pear or fruit of any kind -- nothing but vegetables everywhere . '
9 At last he thought , ` At a pinch I can eat a salad ; it does not taste particularly nice , but it will refresh me . '
10 So he looked about for a good head and ate it , but no sooner had he swallowed a couple of mouthfuls than he felt very strange , and found himself wonderfully changed .
11 Four legs began to grow on him , a thick head , and two long ears , and he saw with horror that he had changed into a donkey .
12 But as he was still very hungry and this juicy salad tasted very good to his present nature , he went on eating with a still greater appetite .
13 At last he got hold of another kind of cabbage , but scarcely had swallowed it when he felt another change , and he once more regained his human form .
14 The Hunter now lay down and slept off his weariness .
15 When he awoke the next morning he broke off a head of the bad and a head of the good cabbage , thinking , ` This will help me to regain my own , and to punish faithlessness . '
16 Then he put the heads in his pockets , climbed the wall , and started off to seek the castle of his love .
17 When he had wandered about for a couple of days he found it quite easily .
18 He then browned his face quickly , so that his own mother would not have known him , and went into the castle , where he begged for a lodging . '
19 I am so tired , ' he said , ' I can go no farther . '
20 The witch asked , ` Countryman , who are you , and what is your business ? '
21 He answered , ' I am a messenger of the King , and have been sent to seek the finest XXXXX that grows under the sun .	salad		apple|cloud|future|kind|lodging|nothing|salad|something|talk|time

1 In a Keddah at least there was torchlight and shouting , but here he was all alone in the dark , and once a trunk came up and touched him on the knee .
2 Then an elephant trumpeted , and they all took it up for five or ten terrible seconds .
3 The dew from the trees above spattered down like rain on the unseen backs , and a dull booming noise began , not very loud at first , and Little Toomai could not tell what it was .
4 But it grew and grew , and Kala Nag lifted up one forefoot and then the other , and brought them down on the ground -- one-two , one-two , as steadily as trip-hammers .
5 The elephants were stamping all together now , and it sounded like a war drum beaten at the mouth of a cave .
6 The dew fell from the trees till there was no more left to fall , and the booming went on , and the ground rocked and shivered , and Little Toomai put his hands up to his ears to shut out the sound .
7 But it was all one gigantic jar that ran through him -- this stamp of hundreds of heavy feet on the raw earth .
8 Once or twice he could feel Kala Nag and all the others surge forward a few strides , and the thumping would change to the crushing sound of juicy green things being bruised , but in a minute or two the boom of feet on hard earth began again .
9 A tree was creaking and groaning somewhere near him .
10 He put out his arm and felt the bark , but Kala Nag moved forward , still tramping , and he could not tell where he was in the clearing .
11 There was no sound from the elephants , except once , when two or three little calves squeaked together .
12 Then he heard a thump and a shuffle , and the booming 
